Warhammer Fantasy Battles FAQ

Table of Contents
1.0 General Information
2.0 Sequence of Play
3.0 Units
4.0 Characters
5.0 War Machines
6.0 Allies
7.0 Line of Sight
8.0 Movement
9.0 Missile Fire
10.0 Hand-to-Hand Combat
11.0 Driven Off Flyers
12.0 Cutting Down Fleeing Units
13.0 Psychology & Break Tests
14.0 Obtaining Spells
15.0 Winds of Magic
16.0 Magic Turn Sequence
17.0 Spells Cast with Total Power
18.0 Spells
19.0 General Information on Magic Items
20.0 Wizard Only Magic Items
21.0 Devices of Protection
22.0 Miscellaneous Magic Items
23.0 Magic Banners
24.0 Magic Armor
25.0 Magic Weapons
26.0 Dwarf Runic Items
27.0 Dwarf Army Clarifications
28.0 Empire Army Clarifications
29.0 High Elf Army Clarifications
30.0 Wood Elf Army Clarifications
31.0 Chaos Army Clarifications
32.0 Chaos Dwarves Army Clarifications
33.0 Dark Elf Army Clarifications
34.0 Orcs & Goblins Army Clarifications
35.0 Skaven Army Clarifications

36.0 Undead Army Clarifications
37.0 Monster Clarifications
38.0 Victory Points

1.0 General Information
1.1 GW Official Status
This WFB FAQ has been reviewed by Warhammer Fantasy Battle designers at Games
Workshop UK. The reviewers included Jervis Johnson, Andy Chambers, and Rick Priestly. All of
the information in the FAQ has been approved by them.
The label `Primarch' is used to indicate answers that come from Jervis, Andy, and Rick. This is
only used when there is not a rules reference available that contains the answer.
Note that although reviewed by GWUK, the information in this document is not considered
official WFB rules unit it appears in writing in a GW published document.

1.2 Version
This is the new revised FAQ, its version is: 2.20.
Last updated on: June 24, 1996.

1.3 Target Warhammer Version
This FAQ addresses questions on the 4th edition boxed set version of Warhammer Fantasy
Battle and the army books and supplements for that version of the game.

1.4 Ordering from GWUS
The phone number for ordering directly from GWUS is: 1-800-394-GAME
The order number is to be used only for ordering items. GWUS also has a customer service
number that is to be used for rules questions and dealing with damaged merchandize. The
customer service number for GWUS is: 1-800-492-8820

1.5 Ordering from GWUK
● Games Workshop PLC
● Chewton Street
● Hilltop, Eastwood
● Notts. NG16 3HY
● Telephone: +44 1773 713 213
● FAX: +44 1773 533 453
To those unfamiliar with phoning internationally, replace the `+' with whatever number you dial to
get out of your own country, e.g. from many western European countries you dial 00.
For the US, to phone internationally, replace the + with 011.

1.7 Warhammer Fantasy Battle on the Net
WHFB on the net, for those with World Wide Web access:
http://www.cabm.rutgers.edu/~hooper/miniatures/miniatures.html
FTP sites are:
ftp://indirect.com/pub/games/miniatures

1.8 Definition of Terms
The following definition of terms has been used to interpret some of the rules and magic items
from Warhammer Fantasy Battle:
Turn: When the Rule Book refers to `turn' it is referring to a complete cycle of each player's
segments. In other words, a turn consists of player A performing move, missile, combat, magic,
and then player B performing move, missile, combat and magic. The term `players turn' refers to
a single player's move, missile, combat, and magic.
Figure and Model: At one time it was believed that these terms meant different things, but with
some clarifications from Arcane Magic it can be seen that these terms mean the same thing. A
figure or a model is a either a single figure, or a group of figures that are connected and moved
together. A chariot with its horses and rider is a single model, an Imperial War Wagon, its crew,
and the horses drawing it is a single model, a throne on a litter with 4 bearers and a rider is a
single model, etc. A unit of 20 footmen is considered 20 models; this is because they are not
connected, they just move together.

2.0 Sequence of Play
2.1 Before Movement
Actions taking place at the start of the phasing player's turn.
The following sequence is suggested for tests taken before a players turn:
Placing the Frenzy determination and Driven-Off re-placements at the beginning of the
sequence was a judgment call--I could see no reason why units subject to Frenzy should not
receive the benefits immediately, should they prove to be in range and not restrained, but the
sequence here could be resolved by a roll-off, if your opponent disagrees. Similarly, it seemed
that returning Driven-Off creatures should have to run the gamut of the pre-turn psychology
tests, just like all the other units that can do something that turn. Note that Dark Elf Obedience
test eligibility is established (i.e. the L.O.S. and range of 24" measured "at the start of the Dark
Elf player's turn", but the actual die roll and consequences of that roll are not resolved until the
Compulsory Movement portion of the Movement Phase--which comes *after* charges have
been declared (see Dark Elf supplement, p. 33).
1. Return driven off flying creatures to board edge [after having missed one turn].
2. Check units for frenzy [enemy within charge range] or roll to restrain from Frenzy
[Leadership test].
3. Check Dark Elf regiments for disobedience [High Elf. unit within 24" and line of sight]--but
roll for it during compulsory movement.
4. Test for terror if w/in 8" of Terror-causing foe.
5. Test for panic if friendly unit [equal or greater in number] is fleeing within 4".
6. Test for stupidity [Leadership test].

7. Test for Orc/Goblin animosity [1 on D6].
8. Test for Daemon animosity and Beastman infighting.
9. Rotate war machines recovering from misfire or suffering crew loss.

2.2 Movement Phase
Note that Frenzied units *must* declare a charge vs. a foe w/in charge range.
Some important points about fleeing:
* If a unit breaks and flees (e.g. due to a failed 8" radius Terror test) at the start of its turn that it
cannot be rallied in the Movement Phase of that same turn.
* A unit which is already fleeing does not have to take psychology tests for Terror, Panic, etc.
2.2.1 Declare CHARGES
1. Attacker tests for fear if required
2. Defender tests for fear if required
3. Defender tests for panic if charged in flank/rear by 5+ models when already engaged in
combat
4. Defender declares options: stand & shoot, hold, or flee
5. Resolve stand and shoot missile fire [panic test if 25%+ casualties]
2.2.2 Rally fleeing units.
2.2.3 Compulsory Movement

Including Dark Elf obedience test, moving goblin fanatics, moving fleeing units,
etc.
2.2.4 Move Chargers

Resolve possible overrun of fleeing units or failed charge move.
2.2.5 Remaining movement.

2.3 Shooting Phase
Includes missile fire, artillery, breath weapons, etc.
See pp. 75-80 for detailed sequence of actions for firing stone throwers, cannon, etc.
1. All firing that requires range guessing by the player must be declared before the
resolution of any missile fire. This is done so that the player does not gain any benefit
from measurements made to resolve other missile fire hits.
2. Designate targets, one at a time, and determine range.
3. Determine damage and remove casualties.
4. Test for panic any unit taking 25%+ casualties.

2.4 Hand to Hand Combat Phase:
Generally, charging attackers strike first, followed by initiative order; however, this may be
affected by special rules for double-handed weapons, assassins, warrior familiars, wardancers,
magic/rune items.
According to Primarch, a challenge issued to a battle standard bearer equipped with Mork's War
Banner should allow the possibility of saving the life of a spell caster in the front rank--Primarch
suggests resolving the head-explosion-on-contact after the challenge is resolved (unless, of
course, somebody else, like an ordinary orc champion, accepts the challenge in the
banner-bearer's stead).

Possible loss/capture of standards is deliberately listed at two separate points in the combat
sequence: the first instance, loss due to death of the banner bearer, must be established before
determination of which side wins/loses, since *unlike rank bonuses* loss of a standard means
that it cannot be counted in the combat resolution. After resolution and break tests, there is a
second opportunity for loss/capture of standards, since any unit that breaks and runs drops its
standard.
Note that, since this option is used only very rarely, I did not include in the sequence the
voluntary Driven Off option.
"Primarch" recommends that the Lap-Round action be used loosely as a way for a winning
player to move his character models around in the fighting rank, putting them base-to-base with
models he wants to fight.
It is strongly recommended that players consult the "Flying Creatures" article originally
published in WD #167 and reprinted in Chronicles of War. The clarifications of fleeing/pursuit &
the Driven-Off rule are key.
1. Issue challenges to single combat
2. Hidden Assassins are revealed.
3. Determine which models strike first.
4. Determine which models fight vs. which enemy models.
5. Determine wounds and remove casualties [note totals for combat resolution].
6. Determine win/loss of each melee combat [multiple units all mutually engaged count as
*one* combat for purposes of win/loss resolution]
7. Determine loss/capture of standards [if bearer is slain]
8. Losers take a break test
9. Test for panic any units w/in 12" of friendly units broken/destroyed in melee
10. Flying creatures beaten in melee combat but not fleeing are driven off
11. Resolve flight and pursuit [note effects of hatred, fear, frenzy, blood greed, obstacles,
buildings]
12. Determine loss/capture of standards [if unit breaks & flees]
13. Move models for lapping around
14. Move characters that declined challenges back to front rank, if desired.

2.5 Magic Phase
[A `pre-game' note: Many players abuse the Book of Ashur--read the card very carefully: it
allows the spell caster to SWAP his/her spells for others in a single redraw. Swap means that
you've already got your normal spells in hand! Thus, the Book of Ashur does not allow you to
draw from any and all colleges from the start. First you draw and redraw as normal, with your
normal limitations (except you count as one level higher); after everybody else has their cards,
then you get the redraw for the Book.]
While spells already in play (from a previous Magic Phase), such as Fiery Convocation,
Arnzipal's Black Horror, etc., are worked out before any spell casting/dispels, if the affected unit
possesses an anti-magic capability (e.g. Amulet of Fire, Stone Troll resistance, etc.), that dispel
power is rolled for before the spell's damage/effect takes place.
Also, attempts to dispel and already in play spell (as above) may only be attempted *once* per
Magic Phase (Battle Magic, p. 26).
1. Roll [5-6 on D6] to determine if any wizard that has played escape may return.
2. Determine Winds of Magic [max: 1D6 per spell caster, minimum: 1D6].
3. Deal magic cards.

4. Return model using Earthblood to table, deal the player the 1st d6 magic cards available
5. Deal magic cards, phasing player first
6. Deal out cards as needed for Chalice of Sorcery, War Altar, etc.
7. Dark/High magic discards & redeals
8. WAAAGH! tests [count only orc units of 10+, Goblin units of 20+]
9. Work out results of spells already in play.
10. Cast spells [including. dispels of existing spells--one chance only]
11. . Test for warpstone, *before*, for Crown of Sorcery, *after* casting a spell with the
respective item.
12. Test for panic for units suffering 25%+ casualties.

3.0 Units
3.1 Profiles
Q: Do the statistics for a rank and file unit member printed in an army list include the
modifications due to his equipment?
A: No. The base statics for the rank and file members of the unit are printed. [Rule Book, pp. 15,
95]
This means that units armed with halberds or double-handed weapons need to add the
appropriate strength modifier before determining the strength of the attack. Mounted chargers
also need to add the appropriate strength bonus for spears and lances, and troops with flails
need to add the strength bonus for the first round of hand to hand combat.
This also applies to the strength bonus witch elves receive for their poisoned weapons.
Units that have heavy armor and shield, or barding need to modify their movement
appropriately.

3.2 Minimum Unit Size
Q: When choosing an army, what is the minimum initial size of a unit?
A: Unless stated otherwise, a unit must consist of at least 5 figures. This can include champion
and standard bearer. [Warhammer Armies, p. 2]
Q: What happens when a has less than 5 figures in it?
A: When a unit has less than 5 figures in it, missile fire damage is randomly determined. This
does not matter if all the figures in the unit are rank and file, but it does matter when there are
characters in the unit.
If a unit consists of 4 figures (3 rank and file, 1 magician) every missile hit has a 1/4 chance of
hitting the magician. [Rule Book, p. 65]
Q: Does a unit ever get so small that its just taken off the board?
A: If a fleeing unit is less than 25% of its original size, it cannot rally. A unit can be smaller than
25% of its original size and stay on the battlefield, however, once it flees, it will not rally. [Rule
Book, p. 35]
Q: A fleeing unit under 25% of its original strength cannon reform. what happens to a character
(other than champion) that is in a unit that is less than 25% of its original strength, and it flees?
A: The character suffers the same fate as the unit which he is a part of. [Primarch]
Q: A fleeing unit at below 25% of its original strength cannot roll to rally (p. 35). Will the Horn of
Urgok rally them anyway?

A: No. [Primarch]

3.3 Unit Standard Bearer
Q: How much do unit standard bearers cost?
A: A unit standard bearer costs double the points of a normal figure in the unit. [Warhammer
Armies, p. 2] Include the cost of all of the equipment for a rank and file member of the unit
before doubling it for the cost of the standard bearer. [Primarch] For unit standard bearer in
chariot units, the cost of the chariot is included before the cost is doubled for the standard
bearer. [Primarch]
Q: Do unit standard bearers have to be in the front rank?
A: Yes, but the standard bearer can be anywhere in the front rank. [Primarch]
Q: Do unit standards in units of packs and packmasters have to be in the front rank?
A: No. [Primarch]
Q: Can units that are immune to psychology get unit standards?
A: Yes. There is nothing in the rules that excludes these units from getting unit standards. [Rule
Book, p. 82].
Q: Can units with beasts and herders get unit standards?
A: Yes. There is nothing in the Rule Book that excludes this. [Rule Book, p. 82]
Q: Can a single units have multiple standards?
A: No. A unit may only have a single unit standard bearer. The only time a unit may have 2
standards in it is if one of them is the unit standard, and the other is the battle standard. [Rule
Book, p. 82]
Q: Can the unit standard bearer be the target for spells such as mork wants ya and items like
the gem of gnar?
A: No. [Primarch]

3.4 Losing/Capturing Standards
Q: When do units lose their standards?
A: If the standard is in the front rank of a unit and all of the regular troopers in the front rank of a
unit die in hand-to-hand combat, then the standard bearer is killed. [Rule Book, p. 82].
If the front rank consists of 1 hero, 1 champion, 1 unit standard bearer, and 1 regular trooper
and the unit suffers 2 wounds to rank and file troopers, the standard is lost (even though the
champion and hero survived).
Standards are captured if:
1. The standard bearer is killed and the enemy wins the combat.
2. The unit breaks in hand-to-hand combat and flees and the enemy pursues.
Standards may be recaptured if:
1. The unit that captured the standard breaks and flees from combat.
2. A recaptured standard does not get to be used by the unit that lost it.
Standards are lost if:
1. The standard bearer is killed but the enemy doesn't win the combat.
2. The unit breaks and flees but the enemy doesn't pursue.
The unit must be broken in hand-to-hand before the standards are captured or lost. Other
effects that cause units to flee do not cause this loss of unit standards.
Q: If a unit looses its standard bearer during a round of hand-to-hand combat, does it still get to
count that standard towards combat resolution?

A: No. [Rule Book, p. 82]

3.5 Musicians
Q: How much does a musician cost?
A: A musician costs double the points of a normal figure in the unit. [Warhammer Armies, p. 2]
Q: What can a musician do?
A: The musician allows a unit to reform if it makes a leadership roll. The unit can then face any
direction with any rank formation. Units reforming with a musician may not shoot. [Rule Book, p.
82]
Q: Can units reform in any direction with any facing without musicians?
A: Only if that unit was fleeing. [Rule Book, p. 35]
Units with or without a musician may change formation by one rank at the cost of half their
movement, by two ranks for all their movement [Rule Book, p. 22]. Units changing formation in
this way may fire missile weapons, though they are penalized for shooting and moving.
House Rule: The primarchs suggest the Fast March house rule:
A unit of troops which includes a musician and a standard bearer can fast march at three times
its normal move rate rather than double its move rate as in a normal march. However, the unit
must adopt a column formation in order to do this with at least as many ranks as it has models
in each rank.
For example, a unit of 16 in four ranks each of four models is a column. Imagine troops
marching along a road and you will get the right idea. If a unit has lost its standard, or does not
have one, it may not fast march - both are necessary. Otherwise a fast march is exactly the
same as an ordinary march and all the rules for marches apply.

3.6 Skirmishing Units
Units that can skirmish can either be in regular formation (like all other troops) or in skirmish
formation.
A unit capable of skirmishing can spend a movement phase to change from regular formation to
skirmish, or from skirmish to regular formation. A unit changing formation may still shoot the turn
it does so.[Rule Book, p. 91]
3.6.1 Skirmish Formation

While in skirmish formation, the unit looses the following benefits:
1. If character in the unit, cannot use his leadership for psychology or break tests.
2. Do not get rank bonus for combat resolution.
3. Do not get to re-roll break tests if within 12" of army standard.
4. If within 12" of the general, cannot use his leadership for break or psychology tests.
While in skirmish formation, the unit still has the following benefits:
1. Unit standard gets combat resolution bonus.
2. Can have characters join or stay in the unit.
[Rule Book, pp. 90-91]
Q: If a character in a unit of skirmishers is wearing the crown of command, does the unit get to
use the characters unmodified 10 leadership?
A: No, the unit does not get to use the characters leadership. [Primarch]
Q: If a character in a skirmishing unit has the sword of fortitude, is the unit immune to
psychology and break tests?

A: Yes. Although skirmishers can't benefit from a character's leadership, they can benefit from
other magical effects. [Primarch]
3.6.2 Regular Formation

If a unit that can skirmish goes into a `regular' troop formation, it regains the
ability to:
1. If character in unit, use his leadership for psychology/break tests.
2. Get rank bonus for combat resolution
3. Re-roll break test if within 12" of standard.
4. If within 12" of general, use his leadership.
[Rule Book, pp. 90-91]
3.6.3 Combat

Q: What happens when an enemy unit with a 5 man front is charged by unit of
skirmishers, where 6 or 7 skirmishers can all reach the enemy unit? Do the extra
skirmishers get to line up on the enemy unit's side and fight too?
A: Move the skirmishers into contact by the most direct route (turn each model to point at the
enemy and charge in a straight line). If this gets models into contact on the enemies flank, we
allow it. Note that the unit does not get a combat resolution bonus for attacking a unit in the
flank. [Primarch]
Q: A unit in skirmish formation is charged by an enemy unit. The enemy unit causes enough
wounds to kill all of the skirmishers in base to base contact with the unit. Do skirmishers have to
`fill ranks' so that the skirmishers are still in combat with the enemy unit?
A: The skirmishers fill ranks. [Primarch]
3.6.4 Skirmish Reaction to Chariots/Fanatics

Q: Does a unit in skirmish formation suffer the same amount of damage from a
chariot that other units suffer? How about the damage caused by a night goblin
fanatic?
A: The unit in skirmish formation suffers the same amount of damage as regular units.
House Rule: It is suggested that when chariots and Night Goblin Fanatics damage units in
skirmish formation that the number of hits be reduced by 1/2, minimum 1 hit.

4.0 Characters
Characters are defined as General, Battle Standard Bearer, Hero/Champion equivalent figures,
and magic user equivalent figures.

4.1 Available Equipment
Q: What non-magical weapons and armor are available to characters?
A: The non-magical weapons and armor available to characters depends upon the army that the
character fights for. Every army book has an equipment list printed right before the discussion of
the units and characters for the army. In that equipment list, any item that does not have a `*' by
it is available to the characters of that army.
Champions of units must be armed and armored the same as rank and file members of the unit.
Army points must be expended to equip unit champions.
[Warhammer Armies p.2), various army books]
Q: Fleshounds are immune to attacks made by magical weapons, can a character switch to a
regular weapon to attack these hounds? Do all characters have this 'free point cost' hand

weapon? Some special characters don't have a non-magical hand weapon listed in their
equipment. Is there any limit to characters changing weapons in a combat?
A: characters may attack the fleshounds with non magical weapons (temporarily sheathing that
magic frostblade to use an regular axe, etc.). All special characters come with 1 non magical
hand weapon. A character may change weapons in a combat freely. [Primarch]

4.2 Profiles
Q: Are character's statistics printed in the army lists modified based upon their equipment?
A: No. The base statics for the character are printed. The modifications to the characters
statistics need to be taken into consideration. [Rule Book, pp. 15, 95]
This means that characters armed with halberds or double-handed weapons need to add the
appropriate strength modifier before determining the strength of the attack. Mounted chargers
also need to add the appropriate strength bonus for spears and lances, and characters with
flails need to add the strength bonus for the first round of hand to hand combat.
This also applies to the strength bonus witch elves receive for their poisoned weapons.
Q: If enhanced by magic items and frenzy, can a character have more than 10 attacks?
A: Yes. [Primarch]
Q: Can magic items increase a a character wound total to more than 10?
A: Yes. [Primarch]

4.3 Battle Standard Bearer
Q: Do I have to purchase the battle standard bearer to have an army standard, Can I claim that
one of my unit standard bearers is carrying the army standard?
A: When selecting an army, you have to pay the points to get a battle standard bearer to get a
battle standard. [Rule Book, p. 83]
Q: When is the battle standard lost?
A: When the battle standard bearer character is killed. The battle standard bearer is considered
a character, and all of the character targeting rules for missile fire, hand-to-hand combat, and
magic spells applies.[Rule Book, p. 83]
Q: Does the battle standard allow re-rolls of all missed psychology checks?
A: No. The battle standard allows units within 12" to re-roll failed break tests; it does not allow
re-rolls for failed panic, fear, or terror tests. [Rule Book, p. 83]

4.4 Magic Users and Armor
Q: Can a magic user wear armor and still cast spells?
A: No. A magic user cannot wear armor and still cast spells.
A magic user can be mounted on a steed that will confer a 5+ or 6+ armor save. If the steed is
some kind of horse, it may have barding.[Battle Magic p. 39]

4.5 Joining Units & War Machines Crews
Q: Can a character join the crew of a war machine?
A: Yes, but they cannot fire the machine. [Primarch]
Q: When a character joins a unit, does he have to be placed in the front rank?
A: Yes. [Primarch] Basically a character that joins a unit can either go in the front rank, or be left

outside the unit but touching it, like this (x = model in unit, o = character)
xxxxo
xxxx
xxxx
Q: Do characters joining units of packs and packmasters have to be in the front rank of the unit?
A: No. [Primarch]

4.6 Characters Mounted on Monsters
Q: Does a character riding a monster get a bonus to armor save?
A: No, characters only get armor save bonus for regular mounts, not monster mounts. [Rule
Book, pp. 28, 68]
Q: In terms of character mounts, what creatures are considered steeds and what creatures are
considered monsters?
A: Creatures with 1 wound are considered regular steeds, and those with more than 1 wound
are considered to be monsters. [Rule Book, p. 68]
Q: If a character is mounted on a monster that causes terror, is that character immune to terror?
A: Yes. [Rule Book, p. 66] Specifically, a rider riding a monster that causes terror gains:
1. Immunity to fear
2. Immunity to terror
Q: Is a character mounted on a monster that causes fear, is that character immune to fear?
A: Yes. [Rule Book, p. 66] Specifically, a rider riding a monster that causes fear gains:
1. Immunity to fear
2. Creatures that cause terror only cause fear for the mounted character
Q: If a character is mounted on a monster which is large, does the enemy shooting at the
character get a bonus to hit?
A: Yes. [Rule Book, p. 68] Because the monster is considered large, the enemy missile troops
gain a +1 to hit. Hits are randomized between the character and the monster before determining
wounds.

4.7 Mounted Characters In Units
Q: Can a character mounted on a steed or monster join a foot unit?
A: Yes. [Rule Book, p. 48]
Q: If a mounted character joins a unit that is armed with spears, do(es) the spearman(s) behind
the character get to attack in the appropriate rounds?
A: No. The steed/monster is too large, and the trooper in the second rank cannot attack past
him. [Primarch]
Q: Can a character mounted on a steed or monster in a unit be singled out for missile fire?
A: Yes and No. Whether a mounted character can be singled out for missile fire depends on his
size relative to the unit size. Effectively, there are three sizes:
1. Small: These are unmounted rank and file troopers with either a 20mm or 25mm square
base.
2. Medium: These are mounted troops or other troops whose base size is 25mm by 50mm.
3. Large: These are large monsters, or characters riding large monsters. These base sizes
are 40mm square.
If the character is small, he cannot be singled out for fire if he is in a unit of small, medium, or
large rank and file figures. This means that these characters (obviously unmounted) can never

be singled out for missile fire if in such a unit.
If a character is medium, he cannot be singled out for missile fire if he is in a unit of medium or
large rank and file figures. This means a character mounted on a horse cannot be singled out in
a unit of knights, centaurs, bull centaurs, ogres, dragon ogres, etc. This also means that the
mounted character can be singled out for missile fire if he is in a unit of unmounted foot soldiers.
If a character mount is large, he cannot be singled out for missile fire if he is in a unit with large
rank and file figures. Therefore, a character riding a manticore cannot be singled out for missile
fire in a unit of ogres, dragon ogres, rat ogres, trolls, etc. [Rule Book, p. 65]

5.0 War Machines
5.1 Chariots
5.1.1 Chariot Units

Q: There is a regimental unit of 5 chariots, and it has a magical standard. Do all
the chariots benefit from the magical standard, or just the chariot carrying the
standard?
A: Only the chariot carrying the magical standard gains from its benefits. The chariot with the
standard is the only chariot that gets to include its bonus in its combat resolution. If a single
chariot in the unit is involved in combat, the other chariots in the unit can still move freely. If a
champion/leader is in the unit, all chariots may use his leadership value. [Primarch]
Q: There is a regimental unit of 5 chariots. Does a magical movement spell that moves units
move all of the chariots in the unit?
A: Only 1 chariot is transported. [Primarch]
5.1.2 Movement

Q: If a chariot runs over a war machine and crew, is it considered to have gone
over rough terrain and sustain damage?
A: No. [Rule Book]
House Rule: The Primarchs suggest that when a chariot runs over a war machine and crew that
it sustains damage as if it ran over rough terrain.
Q: When a chariot is moved via magic spells multiple times in the same magic phase. It is
charged into one unit, then magically charged into a second unit. Do both units suffer chariot
damage in the next hand to hand combat phase?
A: No, only the last unit hit by the chariot. [Primarch]
Q: If an enemy chariot is magically charged into an enemy unit, does that unit suffer chariot
damage?
A: Yes. [Primarch]
Q: Can you summarize chariots attacking units?
A: The following sequence is to be followed:
1. Black Gem Takes Effect
2. Challenges Declared
3. Chariot hits.
4. Impact damage on unit rank and file. If all die overflow randomly onto characters.
5. Challenge combat resolved between chariot riding character and his chariot steeds/
monsters vs. defending character + mount.
6. Chariot crew attacks unit, not defending challenger. If no challenge, character attacks unit
as well.

7. Unit strikes back if able.
[Primarch]
5.1.3 Missile Fire

Q: A cannon ball passes through a chariot model, does the cannonball hit the
chariot models it passes over, or does it cause 1 hit that is randomized, or does it
cause multiple hits that are randomized (1 hit for every piece of the chariot it
passes over)?
A: the cannon ball hits are not randomized. [Primarch]
5.1.4 Standards & Champions

Q: How much to standard bearers cost for regimental chariot units?
A: Double the cost of the whole chariot. [Primarch]
Q: Can you buy champion crewmen for regimental chariot units?
A: Yes. Champions may only ride in chariots if allowed by the army list (i.e. High Elves at
present). [Primarch]
Q: Does a chariot champion get a `look out sir' roll?
A: Yes, but note that there must be another model in the same chariot as the character (i.e. High
Elf champions won't benefit, as they ride alone). [Primarch]
Q: Can characters join chariot crews?
A. A character may join a unit of chariots, but does not get into the chariot itself (he stays on
foot, or horse, etc.). [Primarch]
Q: My chariot also carries a standard. Can this count towards the combat resolution result?
A: Yes. [Primarch]
5.1.5 Combat

Q: Can the crew of the chariot fight any models in base to base contact with the
chariot?
A: Allow a number of models that seems reasonable to attack the chariot (use your discretion).
Any model that can attack the chariot can be attacked by the crew of the chariot. [Primarch]
Q: When in hand to hand combat with a fear causing enemy, how many figures does a chariot
count as?
A: A chariot counts as a single figure no matter how many crew or pulling beasts. [Primarch]
Q. When a character rides in a chariot, is he "in base contact" for the purposes of magic items
and spells as soon as the chariot's front touches the model in question?
A: Everything in contact with the chariot is considered to be in base to base contact with the
wizard. [Primarch]
Q. When a chariot charges, are the casualties inflicted taken from the front rank as usual? If so,
how are casualties worked out if, say, there are two regular troopers and two characters in the
front line? Must the charioteer nominate ahead of time how many attacks are going against
which models?
A: Casualties are taken out of rank and file troopers unless there are not rank and file troopers
left. All casualties are taken out of the front rank first, then latter ranks. Remaining troops fill
ranks. [Primarch]

5.2 War Machines
5.2.1 Crews

Q: If a bolt thrower crew has been killed, may the crew from another war machine
(say a cannon) crew the bolt thrower? Can another bolt thrower crew come over

and operate the bolt thrower?
A: No and No. [Primarch]
Q: When a war machine is destroyed due to misfire, are the characters that joined the war
machine crew killed as well?
A: No. [Primarch]
Q: A character joins a war machine crew, and a monster attacks the crew. Can the character
fight the monster while the rest of the crew operates the war machine.
A: No, all the crew is involved in the combat. [Primarch]
Q: If a war machine is destroyed and the crew is 3 or less, is it considered 25% unit casualties
causing the crew to take a panic test?
A: No. [Primarch]
Q: Can the war machine crew leave the machine to pursue enemy?
A: Yes. [Primarch]
Q: How many members of a war machine crew fight if engaged in hand to hand combat?
A: All of the crew are moved into base to base contact with the enemy and must fight.
[Primarch]
Q: Can war machines turn and fire at something that is out of the 90 degree arc in front of the
machine (turn 180 degrees, 360 degrees to shoot)?
A: Yes. [Primarch]

6.0 Allies
6.1 Ally Army Restrictions
Q: Can you bring an ally's battle standard bearer?
A: Yes. [Primarch]
Q: When I get allies, does the ally army have to obey the given percentages for characters, war
machines, rank and file troopers?
A: No, these restrictions are not applied to allies [Dark Elf Army Book, p. 47] This means that
two things:
1. The allied army is not a mini-army unto itself with restriction on 25% allied war machines,
and 50% allied characters, etc.
2. The components of the allied army are not counted towards the percentages of the overall
army. If the ally army contingent contains war machines, they do not count towards the
25% restriction on war machines for the entire army.
Q: When I get allies, do the army restrictions apply to the ally contingent?
A: Yes. [Dark Elf Army Book, p. 47]. So, for example, no more than 1 Swordmaster of Hoeth unit
could appear in a High Elf ally contingent.
Q: When I get allies, do mandatory army units have to appear in the ally contingent?
A: No. [Primarch]
House Rule: Limit allies as follows: For every allied unit of rank and file troopers taken, 1
character and 1 war machine may be taken.
House Rule: The Primarchs suggest that allies not be allowed unless you opponent agrees to
let you have allies in your army.

6.2 Chaos Allies

Q: If chaos allies are taken, does the allied chaos army get to draw chaos gifts?
A: Yes. [Primarch]
Q: Can the chaos gifts be used on any figures not in the chaos ally contingent?
A: No. [Primarch]

7.0 Line of Sight
7.1 General
Line of sight to an item means that a unit or character has a unobstructed view of the item and
can react to it. Line of sight determines a unit's or a character's ability to:
1. Shoot at something
2. Charge something
For a character/unit to have line of sight to something, it must be in that character/unit's field of
vision, and there must be no obstructions.

7.2 Field of Vision
Q: What is the field of vision for rank and file members of a unit? What is the field of vision for a
character in a unit?
A: The field of vision for a unit is a 90 degree arc that is centered directly in front of the unit. The
field of vision for a character in a foot unit is the same as the rank and file members of the unit:
a 90 degree arc that is centered directly in front of the unit. [Rule Book, p. 16]
Q: What is the field of vision for a lone character or monster?
A: The field of vision for a lone character or monster is the same as that of a unit. That field of
vision is a 90 degree arc that is centered directly in front of the character/monster. [Rule Book p.
16]
Q: What is the field of vision for war machine crews?
A: The war machine crew are also restricted to the 90 degree arc centered in front of them.
[Rule Book, p. 16]. During the Missile Fire phase a player must aim his war machines at their
targets.

7.3 Obstructions
Q: Can units/characters see things that are in the forest?
A: Characters/units can see 2" through forests. [Rule Book, p. 25] Therefore, if a unit/character
is in the forest, and is more than 2" from the edge of the forest, it cannot be seen by anything
outside the forest, nor can it see anything outside the forest. A unit hidden in this fashion cannot
be the target for missile fire, war machine fire, nor can it be charged.
Q: Does a friendly unit obstruct the view of what is beyond it?
A: Yes. Therefore war machines and missile units may not fire through friendly troops at the
enemy. Units may not charge through friendly troops at the enemy. [Rule Book, p. 25]
Q: Is it possible to shoot over a friendly units?
A: Yes. If a missile unit or war machine is located on a hill, then troops that are on the ground in
front of the hill do not obstruct their view. [Rule Book p.25]
Q: Does the front rank of a missile unit prevent the 2nd and subsequent ranks of that unit from
firing?

A: Yes, but if the 2nd rank of the unit is on a higher elevation (hill) than the front rank, then the
2nd rank may fire [Rule Book, p. 25]
Q: Do hills/buildings obstruct the view of what is beyond them?
A: Yes. [Rule Book, p. 25] Therefore these units cannot be the subject of missile fire, war
machine fire, nor can they be charged.
Q: Does an enemy unit obstruct the view of units behind it?
A: The enemy units obstruct the view of things beyond them. Enemy units whose view is
obstructed by other enemy units may not be charged nor fired upon by normal missile fire. [Rule
Book, p.25] War Machines may fire at enemy units whose view is obstructed by other enemy
units. The justification is that "You know the enemy is over there somewhere, so let them have
it." [Chronicles of War, p. 5]
Q: Does a large monster or a character mounted on a large monster gain line of sight over
regular (man-sized) creatures (like troops elevated on a hill)? Does a large monster or character
mounted on a monster gain line of sight over cavalry sized creatures?
A: No and No. [Rule Book, p. 25]
House Rule: The Primarchs suggest the following house rule. Large monsters (and characters
riding them) can see over other models apart from other large monsters. This also means that
large monsters and characters riding large monsters can be seen if they are behind foot-sized
or mounted-knight size units (and potentially missile fire aimed there way).

8.0 Movement
8.1 Movement Rates
Q: When is a model considered off the board?
A: When its base touches the edge of the board. [Primarch]
Q: Do the movement rates printed in the army lists include modifications due to heavy armor
and shield or barding?
A: No. The movement rate given is the base movement rate, modifications due to heavy armor
and shield or barding need to be taken into consideration.
The only exception to this is that dwarves' movement is not slowed by heavy armor and shield.
Movement modifications are:
No armor: No movement modifier
Heavy Armor & Shield Only: -1 Movement Modifier
Barding Only: -1 Movement Modifier
Heavy Armor & Shield, Barding: -2 Movement Modifier
[Rule Book, pp. 20, 95]
Q: When do units take the movement penalty for heavy armor/barding, is it before or after the
doubling of moment for march moves and charging?
A: The movement penalty is taken before the movement rate is doubled. [Rule Book]
Q: Does heavy armor by itself impose a movement penalty?
A: No. The movement penalty is only for heavy armor and shield [Rule Book].

8.2 March Moves
Q: Are their any undead units that can march move?
A: Yes, Ghouls have the capability to march move. Vampire and necromancer characters can

march move as well. [Undead Army Book, p. 58]
Q: If a unit is going to march move, does it have to be 8" away from enemy units during its entire
movement?
A: Yes and No. A unit can march move until it is within 8" of an enemy unit, then it has to stop
moving immediately. [Rule Book, p. 22]
Q: Can a unit that march moves shoot missile weapons that turn?
A: No, the unit is considered to have its weapons in the `unready' position while it marches.
[Rule Book, p. 22]
Q: If a unit march moves this turn, and is engaged in hand to hand combat next turn, does it
suffer any penalty?
A: No. If during its turn a unit march moves, and during the opponents turn a unit engages it in
hand to hand combat, it fights normally. [Rule Book, pp. 22, 30]
Q: Can a chariot model march move?
A: No, this excludes the following from march moves:
* From Orc/Goblin Book: Goblin War Chariot, Orc War Chariot, Snotling Pump Wagon
* From High Elf Book: Tiranoc War Chariot
* From Dwarf Book: The Throne of Power
* From Empire Book: Imperial War Wagon, The Grand Theologist War Altar
* From Skaven Book: The Screaming Bell, The Wheel of Doom
* From Undead Book: The Liche King War Chariot, the Undead War Chariot
* From Chaos Book: Chaos War Chariot
* From Basic Army List: The Wood Elf War Chariot
Note that the Dwarf Anvil of Doom is specifically excluded from this list. [Rule Book, p. 22 &
respective army books]

8.3 Charging into Hand-to-Hand Combat
Q: What units can a unit charge?
A: A unit can attempt a charge any enemy unit that is within its line of sight, and it can only
wheel once during its charge [Rule Book, p.16]
Q: Can units charge through other units in their own army?
A: The units may block the line of sight for the unit that wants to charge. Even if they do not, the
unit cannot charge through them. The interfering units cannot move out of the way due to the
sequence of the movement phase:
1. Declare Chargers
2. Rally Fleeing Troops
3. Compulsory movement
4. Move Chargers
5. Move the rest of the troops
[Rule Book, pp. 16, 18, 25]
Q: Can a unit charge more than 1 enemy unit?
A: Yes, but unless the charging unit is able to contact _all_ the enemies it declared its charge
against, then count it as a failed charge. Note that if the charge fails the unit can't move closer
than 1" to an enemy unit, even if said enemy was one of the units it declared a charge against
(i.e. you must get all or none!) [Primarch]
Q: Can a character leave a unit to charge the enemy?
A: No. [Rule Book, p. 48 & Primarch]
Q: Can a character leave a unit that is going to charge the enemy?

A: No. [Rule Book, p. 48 & Primarch]
Q: How much of my unit has to be in contact with another unit before they are considered in
hand-to-hand combat?
A: First, recall that a a charging unit cannot turn or change formation. This is because the troops
are running or galloping once the charge has begun, and would be unable to execute delicate
maneuvers even if they could hear the orders of their leaders above the shouting and din. A
charge is made straight towards the declared enemy target with the intention of getting as many
models into combat as possible.
A unit can wheel once at the start of the charge in order to bring as many models to face the
enemy as it can. If the chargers would not otherwise hit their target were they to move straight
forward, then they must wheel to face their enemy, and must endeavour to bring as many
models as possible into combat.
If chargers need to wheel towards their target, execute the wheel as already described
measuring the distance wheeled as you normally would. This distance counts as part of the total
distance charged. For example, if a unit can charge 12" it might wheel 4" to bring models to face
the enemy and then move up to 8" towards them.
Once a unit has completed any required wheel it is moved straight forward towards the enemy
and stops as soon as the two units touch.
Once the charging unit is in contact it is automatically align the two units so that the maximum
amount of figures in the front rank are in base to base contact This extra alignment move is free
so long as it does not take the unit into difficult terrain or over an obstacle it has not already
crossed.
If it is impractical to align a unit properly because of interposing terrain, other models, or other
factors, then it is acceptable to re-align the charged unit as well (or instead) so that the battle
lines remain neat.
It can happen that a situation is confusing because of interposing terrain or models which make
it impossible to align the whole unit. [Primarch]
Q: Can I force a panic test when I charge with skirmishers in the rear of a unit already in hand to
hand?
A: Yes, as long as the skirmishers have 5 models. [Primarch]
Q: If a charged unit chooses to flee, how does the charging unit move?
A: If a charged unit chooses to flee, use the dice (either 2D6 or 3D6) to determine how far the
fleeing unit moves. The charging unit can move its maximum charge distance from its original
starting point in an attempt to reach the fleeing unit. If the charger catches the unit, it is
destroyed. If the charging unit will not catch the fleeing unit, it is treated as a failed charge (and
the attacking unit only moves its regular move).
Consider the following example:
1) unit of black orcs on foot (4" move) is 4" away from a unit of crossbow men.
2) The orcs charge the crossbow men.
3) The crossbow men decide to flee, and roll 3 on 2D6.
4) The crossbow men are now 7" away from the orcs.
5) The orcs move 7" (within charge distance) and cut down the fleeing crossbow men.
[Rule Book, p. 23]
Q: When a creature flying High comes down into hand-to-hand combat with an enemy unit, and
that unit chooses to flee, can it pursue?
A: No, when a flying High figure comes down into hand-to-hand combat, it cannot pursue.
[Chronicles of War, p. 5]
Q: When a creature that is flying low charges a unit does it get to double its 24" flying

movement?
A: No, a creature that is flying low has a 24" movement always, even when charging. [Rule
Book, p. 70]
Q: When a flying creature that is flying low charges a unit, may it pursue the unit if the unit
flees?
A: Yes. The White Dwarf article specifically states that creatures flying high cannot pursue
fleeing units, but creatures flying low may. If the creature flying low catches the unit with its 24"
movement, the fleeing unit is destroyed. [Rule Book, p. 70 & Chronicles of War, p. 5]

8.4 Stand and Shoot at Chargers
Q: Do stand and fire missile casualties apply towards combat resolution?
A: No, they can only cause a panic test (if 25% or more casualties caused). [Primarch]
Q: A unit has missile weapons that do not allow them to move and shoot. During their turn them
move, and during the next opponents turn they are charged. Can they stand and shoot?
A: Yes [Primarch]
Q: Can a unit who have chosen the charge reaction stand and shoot, fight back in hand to hand
combat?
A: Yes. [Primarch]
Q: Can a unit stand and shoot at enemy units charging its flank or rear?
A: No. In order to shoot at an enemy unit it has to be in the unit's field of view; enemy units that
are charging a unit's flank or rear are not in that unit's field of view. [Rule Book, p. 25]
Q: Can a lone character/monster stand and shoot at enemy units charging its flank or rear?
A: No. [Rule Book, p. 25]
Q: If a charging unit takes 25% casualties (due to defender standing and shooting), when does
the unit take the panic test?
A: The shooting casualties are taken before the unit moves, or when the unit moves into
maximum missile range of the defending unit. The attacking unit immediately takes a panic test
after suffering casualties (and before coming into contact with the defender). If the attacking unit
fails its panic test, it flees instead of successfully charging the defender. [Rule Book, p. 23]
Q: Is stand and shoot a valid option for all charges within a unit/character's field of view?
A: No. A unit/character can only stand and shoot at an enemy that has to move 50% or more of
its charge movement to reach your unit. [Rule Book, p. 19]
Q: Can War Machines stand and shoot?
A: No, except Jezzails and Warpfire Throwers. Warpfire Throwers cannot shoot at creatures that
attack from flying high. [Chronicles of War, p. 5]
Q: Can a monster or Daemon with a breath weapon or other ranged attack stand and fire if
charged?
A: Yes. [Primarch]
Q: When you stand and shoot, how is it determined if its is long range or shoot range for the
missile weapons?
A: When you stand and shoot, it is always considered short range. [Primarch]
Q: Can you stand and fire at a unit or character who charges via magic?
A: No. The unit that is being attacked by the magically moved unit/character does not have time
to react to the charge. This means that the only charge reaction allowed for magically moved
attackers is `hold'. [Primarch]
Q: When is the effect for a breath weapon worked out for stand and shoot?
A: If charging foe is within range when the charge is declared, the damage for the breath

weapon is worked out before the charging unit moves. If the charging unit is not is range for the
breath weapon, move the unit until the breath weapon template covers (50% or more of the
base) members of the front rank of the unit, then work out damage. [Primarch]
Q: A unit charges an enemy unit with missile weapons. The charged unit decide to stand and
shoot. The charge fails because the enemy is out of range. So, the charging unit is only moved
at its normal movement. Can the charged unit still shoot?
A: Yes, as long as the enemy is within missile fire range after moved. [Primarch]

8.5 Flying High Units Charging into Combat
Q: Can a unit stand and shoot at a creature that comes out of flying high to attack it?
A: Yes. [Chronicles of War, p. 5] Note that this is still considered to be short range.
Q: Can a creature that attacks from flying high attack a unit in the flank or rear?
A: Yes and No. If a unit in not engaged in hand-to-hand combat, then a flying high creature can
only attack it from the front. If a unit is engaged in hand-to-hand combat, a flying high creature
can attack from the flank or the rear. [Rule Book, p. 70]
Q. Flying creatures must charge to the front of the target unit, unless it is already engaged to the
front. Does this mean that a unit which is screened by another unit directly in front of it is
immune to being charged by flying creatures (even if the would-be target unit's sides and rear
are not so screened)?
A: The flying high creature may attack the unit in the flank. [Primarch]
Q: Can a flying creature charge a unit or war machine, which is behind a wall or hedge?
A: Yes. Play it that fliers are not effected by the `defended obstacle' rule (i.e. they hit normally).
This isn't stated specifically in the rules, but is implied by the description of how
flying creatures fight and the driven-off rule (i.e they are flapping around, not standing on
the ground). [Primarch]
Q: Can a creature flying high flee when another flying high creature wishes to attack?
A: This is not covered in the rules. The following house rule is good: The creature can flee and
is considered driven off, like voluntary departure from combat. [Primarch]
Q: If a unit that is attacked from flying high flees, can the flying high unit pursue?
A: No. [Chronicles of War, p. 5]
Q: If a flying creature that is not flying high attacks a unit and that unit flees, does the flying
creature get to pursue?
A: The flying creature gets to pursue the unit normally. [Rule Book, p. 70]
Q: When 2 flyers are flying high and the first charges the second, can the second avoid
combat?
A: No. [Primarch]

8.6 Fleeing/Pursuit Movement
Q: What determines how far a unit flees or can pursue a fleeing unit?
A: When a unit breaks in hand to hand combat or pursues a unit that broke in hand to hand
combat, a dice roll determines it's pursuit and flee distance.
1. For units whose movement is greater than 6", it rolls 3D6 for fleeing/pursuit movement.
2. For a units whose movement is up to 6", it rolls 2D6 for fleeing/pursuit movement
[Rule Book, pp. 35-36]
The exception to this is the dwarves who get 2D6-1 for fleeing.
[Battle Beastiary, p. 13]

Q: When else are die rolls used for pursuit/fleeing?
A: Whenever a unit flees, it uses the appropriate die roll for its fleeing movement. The pursuing
units only use the die roll to determine movement when charging after a unit that broke in
hand-to-hand combat with them. [Rule Book]
Q: How far can a flyer creature pursue/flee?
A: The flyer can flee/purse 3D6". [Chronicles of War, p. 5]
Q: Can a character leave a fleeing unit?
A: No. [Rule Book, p. 48]
Assassins have special rules that allow them to leave fleeing units. [Skaven Army Book, & Dark
Elf Army Book, p. 40]
Q: May fleeing units move through friendly units?
A: Yes [Primarch]
Q: A character is in combat with 2 enemy units, one unit in front of him and one to his side (see
below). If the character looses the combat, and fails his break test, what direction does he flee?
EEEEE
EC
E
E
A: The character flees directly away from where the two units intercect.[Primarch]
Q: Do fleeing units move over impassible terrain (cliffs, lakes, rivers)?
A: No. [Primarch]
Q: If a unit fails its break tests, and cannot flee (due to impassible terrain, and enemy units) is
the unit destroyed?
A: Yes. [Primarch]
Q: If a unit flees, and during the flee come into contact with an enemy unit then is it destroyed?
A: No, its fleeing movement is halted 1" from enemy unit. Units can only come into contact with
enemy units by charging. [Primarch]
Q: If a character/unit is beaten by his foe, and directly behind it is impassible terrain, how does
the character/unit flee?
A: The character would have to try to flee directly away from the enemy troops and could not
due to the impassible terrain, therefore the character/unit would be caught by the pursuing
troops and killed. [Primarch]
If a situation should arise where the fleeing unit can flee through a gap that the pursuing troops
couldn't fit through, then the pursuing troops should be allowed to chase after the opponent.
This would be allowed as long as no individual model in the unit moves further than the distance
rolled on the dice (effectively the pursuing troops move in the same way as the fleeing troops).
The pursuing unit may end up in an odd formation. This is not intended to allow pursuing units
to change formation willy-nilly; they may only change formation in order to catch an opponent.
[Primarch]

8.7 Fast Cavalry Movement
Q: What units get the movement benefits of Fast Cavalry?
A: Mounted units that have a movement greater than 6", and have an armor save no better than
5+. [Rule Book, p. 22]
Q: Do Centaurs and Chaos Dwarf Bull Centaurs get the movement benefits of Fast Cavalry?
A: No. [Rule Book, p. 22]
House Rule: It is suggested that Centaurs and Chaos Dwarf Bull Centaurs gain the movement

benefits of Fast Cavalry.

9.0 Missile Fire
9.1 General
Q: Some models have very high ballistic skills such that even after modifications due to range,
etc. they need a -1+ or a 0+ on a D6 to hit. Is a -1+, 0+ or a 1+roll needed on a D6 considered
an automatic hit?
A: Yes. [Rule Book, p. 26]
Q: If an enemy unit is hiding in a wood can I set the wood on fire with a warpfire thrower or
flame cannon?
A: You cannot shoot at the wood because you do not know that there are enemy within, and if
you could see the enemy the weapons would not set the woods on fire.
Q: Must missile fire units must shoot the first target in their path, even if they have elevation (hill
or tower) to see over intervening troops.
Example: A bolt thrower on a tower must shoot at the beastmen 12" away instead of the Chaos
Knights 18" away.
A: Warhammer Fantasy Battle (unlike 40K) has no targeting restrictions based upon how close
the enemy is. If a unit has unrestricted view of the enemy, the enemy is within the 90 degree fire
arc and it is within range, they can shoot it.
Q: Can a breath attack be made while engaged in hand to hand?
A: No, except for the war hydra [Dark Elf Army Book]

9.2 Shooting at War Machines
Q: Is there any penalty for shooting at war machine crews?
A: War machine crews are considered skirmish formation, and therefore are -1 to be hit.
[Primarch]
Q: Are hits on war machines randomized?
A: No. [Rule Book, pp. 75-81]

9.3 Shooting at Chariots
Q: Are hits on Chariots randomized?
A: Yes. [Rule Book, p. 72]
The following are considered chariots for the randomization of hits:
* From Orc/Goblin Book: Goblin War Chariot, Orc War Chariot, Snotling Pump Wagon
* From High Elf Book: High Elf War Chariot
* From Dwarf Book: Dwarf Throne of Power, Dwarf Anvil of Doom
* From Empire Book: Imperial War Wagon, The Grand Theologist War Altar
* From Skaven Book: The Screaming Bell, The Wheel of Doom
* From Undead Book: The Liche King War Chariot, the Undead War Chariot
* From Chaos Book: Chaos War Chariot
* From Basic Army List: The Wood Elf War Chariot
Q: Are template hits randomized?
A: No. [Rule Book, p. 73]

House Rule: For stone throwers/doom divers/mortars only a single figure can be hit by the
center of the template. Therefore, if the center of the template lies on top of 2 figures (such as a
rider for a chariot and the chariot) the topmost of the 2 figures receives the automatic hit (at the
higher strength) and the bottom figure has the potential to be hit (just as other figures under the
template, but not under the center of the template).
Therefore, if the center of the template is on the rider and the vehicle from the list above, the
rider would get the automatic hit, and the chariot gets a potential hit. The only exception to this
is the Skaven Doomwheel in which case the wheel would get the automatic hit and the engineer
the potential hit.
Q: For something where you randomly determine hit location, and the die roll determines that
you hit a location that is already destroyed, do you re-roll the die?
A: Yes. [Primarch]
Q: When a cannon ball goes through a chariot, are its hits randomized?
A: No. [Primarch]

9.4 Template Hits on Units in Combat
Q: Are template hits and cannon ball damage to a unit engaged in hand-to-hand combat shared
between the units engaged in hand-to-hand combat?
A: No. [Rule Book, pp. 25, 75-81]
House Rule: It is suggested that hits on figures in the first 2 ranks of hand-to-hand combat be
randomized between the units engaged in hand-to-hand combat. This would prevent surgical
placement of breath templates to wipe out units engaged in hand-to-hand combat.

9.5 Shooting at Characters
Q: If a war machine (template hit/cannonball) hits a character is he squashed?
A: If the character is in a unit then he gains the benefit of "look out sir". Basically, one of the rank
and file troopers sees the projectile coming and pushes the character out of the way and takes
the hit. Roll a 6 sided die, on anything other than a 6 a rank and file takes the hit for the
character.[Rule Book. p. 65]
Q: What can cause a `look out sir' roll?
A: Basically the things that cause `look out sir' rolls are:
1. Catapult Projectiles (stones, screaming skulls, doom divers)
2. Cannonballs (great gun, mortar, organ gun, siege cannon)
3. Cannon Templates (Flame Cannon, Steam Tank, Gyrocopter)
[Rule Book, pp. 65, 75-81]
Q: Is character allowed to save against War Machine hits that allow no save if they have an
armor that gives an unmodified save?
A: No, armor does not help characters crushed by a huge boulder. [Primarch] There are a few
exceptions:
1. The Armor of Skaldour always gives a save. [Dwarf Book, p. 42]
2. The Black Armor of Nagash gives save against stone throwers and bolt throwers but not
against other War Machines that allow no save [Undead Book, p. 99]
3. The Black Amulet, Magic War Paint, The Golden Helm of Atrazar are devices of
protection and thus gives a save. [Arcane Magic, p. 9, & Primarch]
Q: Can character in a unit be targeted for missile fire?
A: Yes and No. See the section on "Mounted Characters in Units".

Q: Can a character not in a unit be targeted for missile fire?
A: If a character is within 5" of a unit, the legality of targeting the character for missile fire is the
same as if the character was in the unit. See the section on "Mounted Characters in Units".
Basically it boils down to the relative size of the character compared to the relative size of the
unit (small, medium or large).
If a character is more than 5" away from a unit, he may be targeted. [Rule Book, p. 65]
Q: Can a cannon/stone thrower war machine target a character within 5" of a unit?
A: Yes. Given that you can aim the cannon at the character when he is in the unit (forcing the
"look out sir" roll) you can aim it at the character when he is standing right next to the unit. The
restriction on missile fire applies to archers, hand gun, crossbow, and other missile fire rank and
file troopers. The restriction on missile fire also applies to bolt throwers. [Rule Book, p. 65]
Q: Does a bolt thrower aimed at a character in a unit cause a "look out sir" roll?
A: No. The bolt thrower is considered traditional missile fire and must obey targeting rules for
missile fire. Therefore, for unit of 5 or more figures, it only kills rank and file troopers. [Rule
Book, p. 65]
Q: What happens when regular missile fire targets a character riding a monster?
A: When shooting at a character riding a monster, shots are +1 to hit. Hits are randomized
between the character and the monster he is riding.[Rule Book, pp. 26, 68]
Q: A unit consists of more than 7 models, 5 rank and file and 2 heroes. 6 Missile hits affect the
unit, how are wounds resolved?
A: As long as the unit starts with more than 5 models at the start of the missile fire phase, all hits
are applied to rank and file models. Only when all the rank and file models have been removed
as casualties are hits randomly applied to characters. [Primarch]

9.6 Number of Missile Attacks
Q: Does a character with get to fire as many missiles as its number of attacks?
A: No, all models get 1 missile attack. The number of attacks listed as a characteristic is the
number of attacks in hand-to-hand combat. [Rule Book, p. 14]

9.7 To Hit Modifiers
Q: According to the rules all creatures with 2 or more wounds are large. Do this really means
that missiles get +1 then shooting at harpies? Beastmen? Unicorns?
A: the rules about having more than 1 wound are used to determine if a mount is considered a
monster mount or a steed. Therefore, there is no +1 missile fire bonus for shooting at harpies,
beastmen and unicorns. [Primarch]
Q: When firing at a war machine crew, the crew is considered as skirmishing (-1 to hit) but is the
crew also protected by the war machine (-1to hit for soft cover)?
A: Only war machines with walls to protect the crew gain the additional -1 to hit modifier (such
as the dwarf organ gun). [Primarch]
Q: Are to hit modifiers such as (character, skirmish formation, soft cover, hard cover)
cumulative?
A: Yes. The only combination that is not cumulative is (character & skirmish formation) and (soft
cover & hard cover). Combinations of (character & soft cover), (character & hard cover),
(skirmish & soft cover), (skirmish & hard cover) are valid cumulative to hit modifiers. [Primarch]
Q: When shooting at a lone character riding a monster, what are the `to hit' modifiers?
A: +1 to hit due to large sized model. [Rule Book]

Note that the -1 to hit modifier only applies when shooting at single _man-sized_ character
model. Therefore the to hit modifier is +1. This means that shooting at a character on a horse
would count a 0 to hit modifier (large than man-sized, but not a large target). [Primarch]

9.8 Shooting War Machines
Q: Does a Cannon or Catapult need line of sight to shoot at the enemy?
A: Yes and No. Friendly troops and terrain features (Forests, Hills, Buildings) block the line of
sight for the cannon/catapult crew. Enemy troops do not block the line of sight for the crew. If the
crew has line of sight at a enemy target, they may shoot at it.
An elevated war machine gains line of sight over friendly troops.
War machines that fit this description include: Organ Gun, Great Cannon, Catapults, and
Mortars, and Doom Divers. [Chronicles of War, pp. 13-17]]
Due to the nature of the weapon, it does not make sense to allow the Flame Cannon and
Hellblaster volley gun to fire over friendly troops. [Primarch]
Q: Does a Bolt Thrower need line of sight to shoot at an enemy unit.
A: Yes. [Rule Book, p. 25]
An elevated bolt thrower gains line of sight over troops between it and its target.

10.0 Hand-to-Hand Combat
10.1 Number of Attacks:
Q: Do items that increase the number of attacks add attacks before or after the "double attacks"
characteristic of frenzy?
A: Frenzy doubles the base number of attacks, then add the extra attack due to 2nd hand
weapon, magic weapon, etc. [Empire Army Book, p. 73 & Primarch]
Q: When does the 2nd rank of spearmen get to attack?
A: The second rank of spearmen get to attack on any round that _they_ did not charge into
combat. Therefore, if they receive a charge they get to attack. The 2nd rank of spearmen will
always get to fight in the 2nd round of hand-to-hand combat. [Rule Book, p. 43]
Q: Can a character wield a magic weapon and a 2nd hand weapon?
A: The Battle Magic book strictly forbids the concurrent use of a magic weapon and an
additional weapon. Therefore, you cannot give a character with a magic sword a second hand
weapon, or another magic weapon to use in his off hand. [Battle Magic, p. 39]
There are some special characters that can use two magic weapons, or a magic weapon and a
2nd hand weapon. These characters are specifically mentioned in their respective army books.
[Empire Army Book, Dark Elf Army Book, & Skaven Army Book]
This does allow for characters to be given lances, or spears that they would use instead of the
magic weapons.
Q: Can a character have more than 10 attacks?
A: Yes. [Primarch]

10.2 Number of Figures Killed
Q: Can a figure with multiple attacks kill more figures than it is in base to base contact with?
A: Yes. [Rule Book, p. 33]

Q: Can a figure with multiple attacks split attacks between enemy models?
A: Yes. How many attacks are directed at what models must be decided before any combat
results are determined. Therefore, if a character has 4 attacks, he must choose to use 2 attacks
on the enemy hero, and 2 attacks on the enemy standard bearer before he makes any `to hit' or
`to wound' rolls. [Primarch]

10.3 Charging Strength Bonus
Q: Does a mounted figure with multiple attacks that charges with Lance or Spear get the
strength bonus on all of his attacks?
A: Yes. [Primarch]

10.4 Assassin Attacks
Q: A character has an always strike first magic item (rune of swiftness, bad moon banner,
helm of many eyes) and an assassin leaps out of an enemy unit to surprise attack the character.
Who strikes first, the assassin or the character?
A: Roll a die to determine. [Primarch]
Q: Two units enter combat, each has a disguised assassin in it that wants to reveal himself and
attack an enemy character, which assassin gets to strike first?
A: Use a die roll to determine. [Primarch]

10.5 Challenges
10.5.1 General

Q: When a character is removed from his position in a unit to fight a challenge,
does a rank and file member of the unit fill his position and fight in hand to hand
combat?
A: No. [Primarch] Please note that moving the two models is only a suggestion to make it clear
they are fighting a challenge. The actual rule is that the challengers are moved so they are
opposite each other, but remain within their respective units.
Q: If a unit is charged from the flank or rear, can characters in the front rank issue challenges?
A: Yes. [Rule Book, p.66]
Q: When a character issues a challenge, can he challenge a specific enemy character?
A: No. The player in control of the unit determines what character in the unit answers the
challenge. Any character [champion, hero, wizard, boss, big boss, general, etc.] may answer the
challenge. If the challenge is not answered, the most powerful character in the unit must
temporarily move to the rear rank and not participate in that hand-to-hand combat round. [Rule
Book, p. 66]
Q: If a character riding a monster is challenged, does the monster fight normally or only in the
challenge?
A: The monster can only fight in the challenge. [Primarch]
10.5.2 Declining Challenges

Q: If the character in a unit declines a challenge, does the unit get to use that
characters leadership for break tests (or is it prevented from doing this while the
character is hiding in the back of the unit)?
A: The unit can use the character's leadership. [Primarch]

Q: A lone character is in hand to hand combat with a unit, and a character in the unit issues a
challenge, can the lone character decline the challenge?
A: Lone characters cannot decline challenges, there is no place to hide. [Primarch]
10.5.3 Chariots & Challenges

Q: If a chariot with character on is charging an enemy unit and a enemy champion
offers a challenge and I accept it does the unit still take the full damage from the
chariot?
A: Yes. [Primarch]
Q: A character is in a chariot with other crew. The character is challenged, where do the other
models in the chariot fight?
A: The other models in the chariot do not fight the enemy character in the challenge. The other
models fight the enemy unit (unless enemy character is alone). The steeds may either fight the
enemy character in the challenge or the enemy unit. [Primarch]
10.5.4 Challenges & Greater Daemons

Q: Can Greater Daemon be challenged?
A: No, the Vermin Lord can issue and accept challenges because it is a character. [Primarch]
House Rule: The Primarchs suggest that Greater Daemons be treated as characters and be
allowed to issue and answer challenges.
10.5.5 Assassins

Q: An enemy unit has a character and disguised assassin in it, a character in my
unit issues a challenge, can his assassin attack my character before the
challenge is resolved?
A: No. Challenges are made before Assassins are revealed. This means that an assassin
cannot take part in a challenge on the turn he is revealed, and may not attack characters that
are involved in a challenge either. [Primarch]
Q: The only character in an enemy unit is a disguised assassin, can a challenge be issued to
that unit?
A: No. [Primarch]
Q: The only known character in an enemy unit is a dark elf assassin, can a challenge be issued
to that unit that the assassin must answer (or not fight)? What if the only know character in the
enemy unit is a skaven assassin?
A: Yes and Yes. Although Skaven Assassins are listed in the regiments section of the army list,
they are treated as characters for the purposes of challenges. [Primarch]
10.5.6 Combat Resolution

Q: If a single character attacks a unit and the unit champion challenges him, does
rank bonus and standards affect the combat resolution?
A: Yes. [Rule Book p. 34]
Q: If a character fights in a challenge, and causes more wounds than his challenge opponent
has, do they all apply towards combat resolution?
A: No. If a character causes 4 wounds in a challenge, and the enemy character only has 1
wound, 1 wound would apply towards combat resolution. [Rule Book, p. 34]
House Rule: The Primarchs suggests the Overkill house rule.
As described in the Close Combat section, excess wounds caused when attacking characters
are normally discounted. All the effort of those attacks goes into fighting the character
regardless of the number of wounds caused. As any excess wounds are not inflicted they are
not normally counted towards the combat result. However, when fighting a challenge any
excess wounds scored do count towards the combat result, even though they are not actually

inflicted. This is called the overkill rule.
The overkill rule represent the situation where troops are watching their hero battling for his life
against his adversary. All eyes are focussed on the mighty clash and both sides are yelling
encouragement. If the troops see their champion crushed to a bloody pulp before their eyes
they will inevitably get a bit upset and might decide to turn tail and run rather than stick around
for a dose of the same.
In practical terms the overkill rule means that it is a positive advantage to crush a challenged
enemy as overwhelmingly as possible. It also means that players will benefit if they meet a
challenge with as powerful a character as possible. Players are advised to avoid taking on
especially dangerous opponents with lowly champions, although, of course, even the most
modest character will generally do better than an ordinary trooper.
The overkill rule is not intended to make powerful characters invincible, but to overcome an
unrealistic situation where it is better to make a challenge with a champion rather than a more
powerful character, because the champion has fewer wounds to lose. Obviously, it is still better
to make a challenge with a champion rather than not, as a champion has more chance of
reducing the number of wounds suffered, but the rule is intended to discourage players making
challenges with weaker characters when they have better characters who might more
appropriately make or meet a challenge.

10.6 Who Gets to Attack/Attack First
Q: How do you resolve who strikes first when opponents have magic items that allow them to
always strike first (or when one is an assassin and his surprise attack allows him to always
strike first?
A: If the Dwarf Rune of Swiftness is one of the devices, then use the initiative of the two
attackers to determine who strikes first. [Dwarf Army Book] In all other cases, use a die roll to
determine. [Primarch]
Q: A spear unit is attacked in hand to hand combat, and enemy strikes first. All the models in
the front rank of the spear unit are killed. Do the models in the second rank get to strike back or
are they busy filling the front rank and do not get to attack?
A: The models in the second rank get to strike back. [Primarch]

10.7 Combat Resolution
Q: Is it casualties or wounds that add to combat resolution?
A: It is wounds that affect combat resolution. [Rule Book, p. 34]
Q: If a magic weapon (such as a Frostblade) kills a model with multiple wounds, how is combat
resolution affected?
A: Any figure with multiple wounds that is killed in hand to hand combat has all of its wounds
apply towards combat resolution. Therefore, a model that is killed with one blow from a
Frostblade has all of its wounds apply towards combat resolution. [Primarch]
Q: A unit with a unit standard is attacked in the flank or rear, does the unit standard affect the
combat resolution?
A: Yes. [Primarch]
Q: Is there a maximum possible number for rank bonus?
A: the maximum rank bonus is 3. [Rule Book, p. 34]
Q: When is rank bonus computed for a combat, before or after a unit has taken casualties?
A: Compute the rank bonus before casualties have been taken out of the unit. [Primarch]

Q: If attacked from the flank or rear, does a unit get rank bonus?
A: Yes, the unit gets its normal rank bonus even if only attacked in the flank or rear. [Primarch]
Q: A unit is attacked in the flank by an enemy unit. Does the enemy unit have to get 5 models
engaged in hand to hand combat to get the +1 combat resolution bonus?
A: No, as long as there are 5 models in the enemy unit, the +1 combat resolution bonus is
given. [Primarch]
Q: Do ranks with 4 figures or more count toward rank bonus if they are not a complete rank (for
units whose rank size is 5, 6 or higher)?
A: No. [Rule Book, p. 34]
House Rule: Since Rank Bonus is to represent numbers of troopers bolstering (and
demoralizing) confidence, it is suggested that any rank of 4 or more in a unit count towards that
units rank bonus. It seems rather inappropriate that 1 missile casualty can cause a unit of 23
troopers (organized 6 wide ranks by 4 deep originally, now the last rank only has 5) to lose a
rank bonus.

10.8 Combat with Multiple Units
Q: If multiple units are engaging a single enemy unit, are there two different combat resolutions
(one for each unit against the enemy)?
A: No. Once all the units are engaged, it is considered a single combat. [Rule Book, p. 30]
Q: If multiple units are engaging the enemy, does each unit get to apply its rank bonus towards
combat resolution?
A: No. You only get to count the rank bonus for the unit that has the largest rank bonus. [Rule
Book, p. 34]
Q: If two units are engaging one enemy unit, and they both have unit standards, does each
standard add +1 towards combat resolution?
A: No, you only get to count 1 of the unit standards toward combat resolution. [Rule Book, p. 34]
The key things to remember for multiple units involved in a combat are:
1. +1 Point (up to maximum of +3) for every rank 4 wide after the first. You get this bonus for
only 1 of your units in the combat.
2. +1 Point (up to maximum of +1) for a unit standard in the front rank fighting. You only get
this benefit for 1 of your units.
3. +1 Point for the Battle Standard in the front rank fighting. This bonus applies even if a unit
standard bonus has been included.

10.9 Removing Casualties
Q: When a character with multiple attacks kills many models in an enemy unit, are all the
casualties pulled from the front rank (in terms of striking back) or does the character kill the
models in base to base contact first (front rank), and then models in the second and latter ranks
of the unit?
A: The casualties come out of the front rank.

10.10 Moving During Combat
Q: Can a unit move out of combat that is engaged with the enemy?
A: No, never. If a unit is engaged with 2 enemy units, and 1 enemy unit flees, it may not pursue
as long as it is in contact with the other enemy unit. [Rule Book, p. 36]

Q: Can a unit be magically transported out of combat?
A: Yes. [Primarch]
Q: If a unit is attacked in the flank or rear, or in some manner so that its characters may not
engage the enemy, can they move to engage the enemy?
A: No, with one exception.
Basically the characters are stuck where they are. If the unit that the character is in wins a round
of combat, the characters are allowed to move where they wish. This applies to the unit
standard as well so that the unit may gain the standard bonus. This is allowed under the
`lapping around' clause in the combat section. [Rule Book, p. 36]
House Rule: The Primarchs suggest a house rule allows characters and special models
(standards, leaders, etc.) to swap places with a model in base to base contact with the enemy
after the first round of combat has been fought.

11.0 Driven Off Flyers
Q. When a flying creature is `Driven Off' What board edge it is forced off of?
A: When a flying creature is driven off, it must miss an entire turn (movement, missile fire, hand
to hand combat, magic) for its controlling player, then it must return on controlling players
deployment board edge.
In other words, if at the end of the controlling players turn a Manticore is driven off, it stays off
during the opponents turn (movement, missile fire, hand to hand combat, magic) as well as the
controlling player's turn. [Rule Book p. 70, & Primarch]

12.0 Cutting Down Fleeing Units
NOTE: There is some discussion about fleeing and pursuit in the movement section.
Q: If a unit is in combat with 2 enemy units and both enemy units break and flee, can I choose
which one to chase?
A: Yes, even if the unit winning the combat has frenzy. [Primarch]
Q: If a unit in combat with 2 enemy units (one attacking its front, one attacking its rear) wins the
combat with the unit to its front, and that unit breaks and runs, can you pursue?
A: No, while the unit is still in combat with the other unit it cannot pursue the fleeing unit. Even if
the unit still in contact with the victorious unit is a lone character model. [Rule Book, p. 36]
Q: When a unit charges a broken unit, what can the broken unit do?
A: The broken unit must choose the `flee' option. The unit then determines how far it flees. If the
charging unit still reaches the fleeing unit with its original charge move, the fleeing unit is
destroyed. This is also discussed in the movement section.[Rule Book, p. 35]
Q: Does a character/unit that magically is transported onto a fleeing unit destroy that unit?
A: Yes, the unit does not have time to flee. [Primarch]

13.0 Psychology & Break Tests
13.1 Definition of Psychology Tests
13.1.1 General

Q: What are the different psychology tests, and when do they apply?

A: The psychology tests are:
1. Panic
2. Fear
3. Terror
4. Stupidity
[Rule Book, pp. 38-40]
13.1.2 Already Fleeing Units

Q: When units are fleeing, are they required to take Panic and Terror tests (e.g.
the Terror test if w/in 8" at the beginning of a turn or the Panic test for being w/in
12" of a unit broken in combat)?
A: No [Primarch]
13.1.3 Panic test is made when
1. A unit suffers more than 25% casualties due to missile file or magical

attacks.
2. A unit is within 12" of a unit that breaks in hand-to-hand combat.
3. After the rally phase, a unit is within 4" of a unit that is still fleeing. If the fleeing unit is less
than the size of the unit, a panic test is not needed.
4. A unit is within 12" of a unit that is destroyed.
5. A unit is engaged in hand-to-hand combat and is charged from the flank or rear. The
enemy unit must be 5 figures or more to cause this test.
[Rule Book, p. 38]
Q: Does a unit have to take a panic test if a lone character is slain within 12" (character not in
unit?
A: Yes. [Primarch]
13.1.4 A fear test is made when
1. A unit is charged by a creature that causes fear.
2. A unit charges a creature that causes fear.
[Rule Book, p. 39]
Q: When a unit wants to charge a terror causing creature, does it take a terror test or a fear
test?
A: A fear test. [Rule Book & Primarch]
13.1.5 A terror test is made when:
1. A unit is within 8" of an enemy creature that causes terror.
2. A unit is charged by a terror causing creature. The difference between this terror test and
the fear test is that a failed terror test means the unit automatically routs. A failed fear test
will cause a rout only if the testing unit is outnumbered by the charging unit.
A unit only takes 1 terror test per game. [Rule Book, p. 40]
Q: If a terror causing creature is behind a wall and out of sight but still within 8" of my unit does
the unit have to take a terror test?
A: Only take terror tests for creatures you can see, only creatures whose view is obstructed
don't cause terror tests (creatures behind the unit will cause terror tests). [Primarch]

13.2 Battle Standards, General & Psychology Test
Q: If a unit is within 12" of the general, can it use his leadership for psychology tests?
A: Yes. [Rule Book, p. 83]
Q: If a unit is within 12" of the battle standard, can it re-roll a psychology test if it needs to?

A: No. The Army Standard only allows re-rolls of break tests. [Rule Book, p. 83]

13.3 Units Immune to Psychology
Q: Are units that are immune to psychology immune to break tests?
A: No, not unless the unit description specifically states that the unit is immune to break tests.
[Rule Book, p. 41]

13.4 Frenzy
Q: Do troops that have frenzy enter the battlefield frenzied?
A: No, troops that can frenzy do not enter the battlefield frenzied. [Rule Book, p. 41]
When they enter the battlefield, they are treated just like a regular unit, with normal number of
attacks and with normal psychology rules.
The only time troops may enter the frenzy is in the beginning of their own turn, and only when
there are enemy troops within their charge reach. For the unit to frenzy it has to do one of the
following:
1. Successfully charge the enemy unit and enter hand to hand combat.
2. Already be in hand to hand combat at the beginning of their movement phase. This
means that a unit of Savage Orcs unit that is charged by an enemy, and is still in hand to
hand combat at the beginning of the Savage Orcs movement phase, can frenzy.
If a unit subject to frenzy does not want to charge an enemy unit, it must take a leadership
check. If it succeeds, the unit is out of frenzy and will not charge the enemy unit.
Once a unit has entered frenzy, it will remain frenzied until it is broken in hand-to-hand or there
are no enemies within its charge distance. In latter case you automatically shift out of frenzy.
[Rule Book, p. 41 & Primarch]
Q: Does a frenzied unit ignore blood greed?
A: Yes the unit is immune to all psychology. [Primarch]
Q: A character with frenzy is mounted on a flying monster and is flying high. Does this character
have to take leadership tests to not charge enemy units on the ground? If the character does
charge an enemy unit from flying high, does it frenzy?
A: Yes and Yes. [Primarch]
Q: If a frenzied character on a flying monster is driven off, does he lose he frenzy ability as if he
were broken?
A: No, he is still frenzied. [Primarch]

13.5 Hatred
Q: A unit looses a round of hand to hand combat to an enemy unit it hates, and a 2nd enemy
unit it does not hate. Does it take its break test at unmodified 10?
A: Yes. [Primarch]
Q: A unit is in hand to hand combat with an enemy unit it hates, and an enemy unit it fears. The
unit is outnumbered by the fear causing unit, and looses combat. Does it automatically break?
A: Yes. [Primarch]
Q: A dwarven unit is in hand to hand combat with an orc unit it hates and a giant that uses the
'yell and bawl' attack. How is combat resolved?
A: Any wounds applied to the giant don't affect the combat results. The Orc and Goblin player

gets to add +2 to his combat result. The rest of the combat then carries on as normal. [Primarch]

13.6 Automatic Breaks
Q: A unit immune to break tests and psychology lost a round of combat to fear causing
creatures that outnumber it, does it break?
A: No [Primarch]
Q: A unit immune to psychology (but not immune to break tests) lost a round of combat to fear
causing creatures that outnumber it, does it break?
A: No, because the unit _ignores_ the fear in the first place, and thus is not effected by the
automatic break rule. [Primarch]

13.7 Unit Immune to Psychology, Character is not
Situation: A unit that is immune to psychology and break tests has a character in the unit that is
not immune to psychology and break tests.
13.7.1 Panic Questions

Q: The unit suffers 25% missile casualties, that cause a panic test, the unit uses
the character's leadership and fails the test, what happens?
A: The character flees, the rest of the unit does not. [Primarch]
Q: A unit within 12" of the unit breaks in hand to hand combat causing a panic test which it fails,
what happens?
A: The character flees, the rest of the unit does not. [Primarch]
Q: During the unit's movement phase, another unit flees past it, and the unit fails its panic test.
A: The character flees, the rest of the unit does not. [Primarch]
Q: The unit is in hand to hand combat and is charged in the rear or flank, and the character fails
his panic test.
A: The character flees, the rest of the unit does not. [Primarch]
13.7.2 Fear Questions

Q: The unit wants to charge a fear causing creature, and the character fails his
fear test.
A: The unit and the character do not move. [Primarch]
Q: The unit is charged by a fear causing creature and the character fails his fear test.
A: The rank and file members of the unit strike normally, the character needs 6's to hit.
[Primarch]
Q: The unit is charged by a unit of fear-causing skeletons that outnumber it, and the character
fails his fear test.
A: The character flees, the rest of the unit does not. [Primarch]
13.7.3 Terror Questions

Q: the unit is charged by a terror causing creature and the character fails his
terror test.
A: The character flees, the rest of the unit does not. [Primarch]
Q: The unit is within 8" of a terror causing creature at the beginning of its movement phase, and
the character fails his terror test.
A: The character flees, the rest of the unit does not. [Primarch]
13.7.4 Break Tests

Q: The unit looses a round of combat, and the character fails his break test, what

happens.
A: The character flees, the unit stays in hand-to-hand combat. [Primarch]

13.8 Character is Immune to Psychology, Unit is not
The character is immune to psychology and break tests, but the unit he is in is not. (Ungrim
Ironfist leading regular dwarves, etc.)
13.8.1 Panic Questions

Q: The unit suffers 25% missile casualties, that causes a panic test, the unit uses
the character's leadership and fails the test, what happens?
A: The unit & character flee. [Primarch]
Q: A unit within 12" of the unit breaks in hand to hand combat causing a panic test which it fails,
what happens?
A: The unit & character flee. [Primarch]
Q: During the unit's movement phase, another unit flees past it, and the unit fails its panic test.
A: The unit & character flee.[Primarch]
Q: The unit is in hand to hand combat and is charged in the rear or flank, and the character fails
his panic test.
A: The unit & character flee. [Primarch]
13.8.2 Fear Questions

Q: The unit wants to charge a fear causing creature, and the unit fails his fear
test.
A: The unit and the character do not move. [Primarch]
Q: The unit is charged by a fear causing creature and the using the character leadership, the
unit fails its fear test.
A: The character strikes normally, the rank and file members of the unit need 6's to hit.
[Primarch]
Q: The unit is charged by a unit of fear-causing skeletons that outnumber it, and the unit fails its
fear test.
A: The unit & character flee. [Primarch]
13.8.3 Terror Question

Q: the unit is charged by a terror causing creature and the character fails his
terror test.
A: The unit & character flee. [Primarch]
Q: The unit is within 8" of a terror causing creature at the beginning of its movement phase, and
the character fails his terror test.
A: The unit & character flee. [Primarch]
13.8.4 Break Tests

Q: The unit looses a round of combat, and the unit fails his break test, what
happens.
A: The unit & character flee. [Primarch]

13.9 Slaneesh Champions
The different chaos champions of Slaneesh have a special rule that allows them to stay in hand
to hand combat when the unit that they are in breaks. [Chaos Army Book, p. 42]

13.10 Leaving Fleeing Units
Q: Can a character leave a unit once it starts to flee?
A: No. [Rule Book, p. 48]
Assassins (Skaven and Dark Elf) characters have a special rule that allows them to leave
fleeing units.[Skaven Army Book, Dark Elf Army Book, p. 40]

14.0 Obtaining Spells
14.1 Level 5 Spell casters
There can only be a level 5 spell caster if a character has a magic item that boosts the level of
the spell caster (such as the Book of Nagash, the Book of Ashur, or the War Crown of Saphery).

14.2 Order for Getting Spells
Q: What is the proper order for obtaining spells?
A: The order for obtaining spells is determined by the level of the spell caster (except for access
to Dark Magic Spells) and is the following sequence:
1. Dark Elf Sorcerers get to draw Dark Magic Spells.
2. Level 5 Spell casters draw
3. Level 4 Spell casters draw
4. Level 3 Spell casters draw
5. Level 2 Spell casters draw
6. Level 1 Spell casters draw
The Dark Elf Sorcerers get to draw from the Dark Magic deck before all other types of spell
casters, no matter what the level of the Dark Elf Sorcerer and the level of the other spell caster.
This means that they get access to the Dark Magic Spell Deck before the various chaos spell
casters, and the various undead spell casters. [Dark Elf Army Book, p. 34]
To determine the drawing order between Dark Elf Sorcerers, the level of the spell caster is used
(higher levels drawing first).
If some spell casters are of the same level, the order is determined by what type of spell caster
they are. That order is:
1. High Elf and Wood Elf Mages go first (tie).
2. Dark Elf Sorcerers
3. Chaos Sorcerers, Beastmen Shamans, Greater Daemons, and Necromancers go second
(tie).
4. Lessor Daemons go third.
5. Human Mages, Orc Shamans, Skaven Warlocks, and Grey Seers go fourth (tie).
6. Goblin Shamans go last.
[Battle Magic, pp. 21-23]
If 2 spell casters draw are tied, and draw from the same deck, use a die roll to determine which
spell caster draws first (highest roll draws spells first). Breaking ties is not necessary if the 2
spell casters draw from entirely different decks.

14.3 Exchanging Spells

Q: When are spells turned in and replaced with others?
A: Immediately after a spell caster has drawn his spells he turns in the ones he does not want
and draws new ones. This occurs before the next mage draws any spells. [Battle Magic, p. 21]
Q: When a mage exchanges spells, is he capable of drawing a spell he already discarded?
A: No. When a mage exchanges spells, he places the spells he discards into a separate pile,
then goes back to the spell deck and draws his replacement spells. [Battle Magic, p.21]
Q: When a spell deck has already been drawn from, and exchanges made, what spells are
available for the next mage?
A: All spells from a college that are not currently used by another mage comprise the pool that a
mage draws from. [Battle Magic, pp. 21, 23]
Therefore, if a mage has already drawn from the `jade' college and performed exchanges, all of
the discarded spells and the non-drawn spells are shuffled together before the next mage draws
any `jade' spells.

15.0 Winds of Magic
15.1 Winds of Magic Dice
Q: How many dice are rolled for the winds of magic?
A: Two dice are generally rolled for winds of magic. [Battle Magic, p. 24]
If less than 2 spell casters (0 or 1) are in the game, 1 die is rolled for winds of magic. [Primarch]
An optional rule is to roll one die for every spell caster on the board. [Battle Magic, p. 24]

15.2 Armies Without Mages
Q: If I have no spell casters, do I still get winds of magic cards?
A: Yes. [Battle Magic, p. 27]
Q: If I have no spell casters, can I still use Dispel cards from Winds of Magic?
A: Yes. For non-dwarf armies, the Dispel will work on a die roll of 5-6. [Battle Magic, pp. 26-27].
For dwarf armies, the dispel will work on a die roll of 4-6. [Dwarf Army Book, p. 77]
Q: If I have no spell casters, can I use total power, mental duel, or drain magic from Winds of
Magic?
A: No. [Battle Magic, p. 27] The exception to this is that dwarf armies can use the drain magic
card.[Dwarf Army Book, p. 77]

15.3 Escape
Q: If I have a monster mounted mage that escapes death with the 'escape' winds of magic card,
does the mount go with the mage? Does the mount stay on the board? If the mount stays does
it roll on the monster reaction table?
A: They escape together. [Primarch]

15.4 Mental Duel
Q: If a spell caster loses a spell due to mental duel, is that spell caster considered 1 level lower
than he was before?
A: No. If a 4th level spell caster loses a spell due to mental duel, he is still a 4th level spell

caster that just happens to only have 3 spells. [Battle Magic, p. 27]

15.5 Rebound
Q: When a template spell hits a unit with a wizard in it who rebounds the spell is any of the unit
affected (depending oh if it hits part of the unit before it hits the wizard)?
A: No. [Primarch]
Q: A dark elf sorcerer in a unit casts soul drain (a template spell) at an enemy unit. A wizard
rebounds it with Rebound card. It says that the spell stops as soon as it hits a target., when is
this template considered to have hit the target'?
A: Treat the template as hitting the unit when the full template (or as much as is possible) is over
the unit. [Primarch]
Q: A mage mounted on a monster has a spell rebounded onto him (winds of magic rebound)
does the spell affect the mage or the monster?
A: In general if the spell states 'first model in path takes x hits' randomize the hit between the
mage and the monster, otherwise the spell affects the mage. [Primarch]

15.6 Reshuffling Magic Deck
Q: When is the Magic Deck reshuffled (with the power cards, etc.)?
A: The Magic Deck is reshuffled at the end of every magic phase. [Arcane Magic, p. 5]
Arcane Magic also discusses other optional methods for dealing with the Magic Deck. One is
that the Magic Deck is reshuffled only when there are not enough cards in the deck for the
current Winds of Magic.

15.7 Exchange Winds of Magic Cards
Q: If an army has character with a High Magic spell or a Dark Magic Spell does that army gain
the ability to exchange Winds of Magic cards?
A: Yes. If a army contains 1 spell caster with a High Magic spell, then the player controlling the
army may turn in power cards after Winds of Magic are dealt, and get to draw new cards.
If a army contains 1 spell caster with a Dark Magic spell, then the player controlling the army
may turn in special cards after Winds of Magic are dealt, and get to draw new cards.
If an army has mages with Dark Magic Spells, and Mages with High Magic Spells, then only 1
type of Winds of Magic card exchange may be performed each magic phase (either power
cards, or special cards). [Battle Magic, p. 25]
Q: If I have a High Magic or Dark Magic spell caster, and I have another mage with a special
ability to draw extra Winds of Magic cards, can that mage exchange his Winds of Magic cards?
A: No. The mage that gets to draw bonus cards can only exchange them if that mage has Dark
Magic or High Magic, and then can only exchange in the appropriate manner.
For example, an Empire and High Elf army, and with a High Elf Mage (with High Magic), and the
Grand Theogonist with Grey Magic spells. The Grand Theogonist gets his own D3+1 Winds of
Magic cards, but could not use the High Elf Mage's ability to exchange them. What the Grand
Theogonist gets in his draw he is stuck with. [Primarch]

16.0 Magic Turn Sequence

16.1 Dispelling Active Spells
Q: When in a Magic Turn can you dispel active spells?
A: When it is your phase. [Battle Magic, pp. 25-26]

16.2 Still Active Spells
Q: When in a Magic Turn do spells that are still active effect units on the board?
A: Right after winds of magic, and card dealing, but before players begin their active phases.
This means that the purple sun of Xerxes moves and potentially kills more figures before a
player has a chance to use a Winds of Magic dispel card upon it. [Battle Magic, p. 41]
Q: If a unit has an anti-magic item, when does this item effect still active spells?
A: Before that spell has any further effect. That item may attempt/automatically dispel the still
active spell immediately after cards are dealt, but before any still active spell has its effect.
Therefore a unit with the Standard of Valaya can attempt a dispel on the Fiery Convocation
before it kills more figures. [Primarch]
To summarize, the magic phase sequence would look something like:
1. Determine Winds of Magic
2. Deal Cards
3. Anti-magic Items can attempt dispel on still active spells
4. Still Active Spells have their effects
5. Cast New Spells
* Current Turn Players Phase
* Opponent Players Phase
* Repeat the players phases.

16.3 Spell Casting Order
Q: If it is my turn during the magic phase, do I have to cast spells first?
A: No, but you risk loosing the opportunity to cast spells.
As mentioned previously, the player's whose turn it is has an active phase first. A player may do
one of three things during their active phase:
1. Cast a spell with magic item or spell caster (which the opponent may try to dispel).
2. Dispel a currently active spell.
3. Pass. Which means the player does nothing and lets the opponent now have an active
phase.
If the two players pass in consecutive active phases, then the magic phase is over. [Battle
Magic, pp. 25-26]

16.4 Sequence for Dispelling a Cast Spell
Q: When a Spell is cast during the Magic Phase, at what point does the opposing player attempt
to dispel it?
A: The following order is suggested for Dispelling a spell that is cast
1. The casting player nominates a target.
2. If that target has any magic protection (devices that may dispel the spell) determine if the
device succeeds in dispelling the spell.

3. The player who controls the unit being attacked must determine if he is going to winds of
magic dispel cards or dispel scrolls, etc. to dispel the spell.
4. Die rolls for spell effects are made.
The Primarchs suggest that all winds of magic and dispel scrolls be used before determining if
magic protection devices from the target work (swap the order of 2 and 3). [Primarch]

16.5 Loosing/Fleeing Magicians
Q: If a wizard is killed, and some of his spells are remaining in play, are they removed from
play?
A: Yes. [Primarch]
Q: If a wizard flees, and some of his spells are remaining in play, are they removed from play?
A: No. [Primarch]

16.6 Recasting Magic Spells
Q: A 'remains in play' spell is in play at the beginning of the magic phase. It moves randomly
and moves off the board. Can the spell be recast during the current magic phase? What if the
spell was cast in the magic phase and moved off the board in magic phase, can it be cast again
in the magic phase?
A: No and No. If a spell is in play at the beginning of the magic phase (unless necromantic spell)
it may not be recast again during that magic phase. If a spell was cast once during a magic
phase (even if dispelled, moved off the board, etc.). it cannot be cast again that magic phase.
[Primarch]

16.7 Flying High & Spell Casting
Q: According to Arcane Magic, if a flying high wizard casts a spell, then other flying high targets
are assumed to be range for the spell. What happens if the spell is an area affect spell and there
are multiple enemy targets (such as stormcall affects all models within 3" radius take a Strength
4 hit and a bunch of enemy harpies are flying high)?
A: All flying high models are assumed to be in range and affected.

17.0 Spells Cast with Total Power
17.1 Dispelling During Casting Turn
Q: Do magic items that have dispel affects work against spells cast with Total Power?
A: No. The Total Power overrides the magic item for the current magic phase. [Primarch]
A spell cast with Total Power is unstoppable. A spell cast with Total Power cannot be dispelled
the turn that it is cast. [Primarch]
This means that the following items cannot affect spells cast with total power: Spelleater Shield,
The Silver Seal, Talisman of Obsidian, Amulet of Fire, Destroy Magic Spell Scroll, Dispel Magic
Spell Scroll, Mork's War Banner, Banner of Arcane Protection, Hypnotic Eye Scroll (two possible
outcomes, one is to dispel), Collar of Khorne, The Gem of Taranto, The Hungry Maw, Bufo's
Hex Scroll, the Rebound Winds of Magic Card, the Dispel Magic Winds of Magic Card, the
Destroy Spell Winds of Magic Card.

Q: Do items that redirect spells but do not dispel them work against spells cast with total power
work?
A: Yes, but note that this only includes items that do not rebound the spell onto the caster. This
includes Spellshield, Banner of Arcane Warding, and Mystic Maze. Note that Magic Mirror
rebounds the spell onto the caster and therefore cannot affect spells cast with total power.
[Primarch]
Q: Do items that protect their wearers from magic, but don't dispel the magic, protect the wearer
from a spell cast with total power.
A: Yes. This means that items such as the Black Armor of Nagash and the Heart of Avelorn that
protect the were from a spell, but do not dispel it, would work. [Primarch]
Q: Does Drain Magic remove spells cast with total power that turn?
A: Yes. [Primarch]
Q: Some spells have larger effects the more power cards that are put into them. If a spell is cast
with total power and some additional power cards, can the affects caused by the additional
power cards be dispelled?
A: No. [Primarch]
Q: Can Total power be stopped by The Mystic shield of Brag?
A: Yes. [Primarch]

17.2 Dispelling During Later Turns
Q: Can a spell cast with Total Power the previous turn be dispelled in subsequent turns?
A: Yes. In subsequent turns, anti-magic items, dispel scrolls, or winds of magic cards may be
used to dispel a spell cast in a previous turn with Total Power. [Primarch]

18.0 Spells
18.1 Magical Dispel Effects
Q: Is summoning a unit of Skeletons in Hand to Hand with a unit considered casting a spell at
the unit' for dispel effects?
A: No. [Primarch]
Q: Is summoning a crevasse under a unit considered targeting a unit for dispel effects?
A: No. The magic creates the hole, just as Assault of Stone moves the hill, do it can't be
dispelled just because you fall in! [Primarch]
Q: Is Assault of Stone or Cracks call considered targeting a unit for dispel effects?
A: No and Yes. [Primarch]
Q: The spell that puts a counter on the board, and every magic phase a die roll is made to
determine if the firestorm comes down from the sky, is this spell considered targeting a unit for
dispel effects (if the unit is around the counter)?
A: No. [Primarch]
Q: When a movement spell moves an enemy unit into hand to hand combat with your unit, can
an anti-magic item that protects your units (only effects spells cast at your unit) prevent this
movement of enemy troops (have its anti-magic effect)?
A: No. [Primarch]
Q: Spells that Drifting around the board after they have been cast, are these spells considered
`targeting a unit' for dispel affects?

A: Yes. The energy from the spell can still be cast back into the warp. [Primarch]

18.2 Characteristic Tests
Q: If a figure has a `6' or better in a statistic (like initiative) and a spell states that the character
has to roll under the statistic to avoid the effect, will that character automatically roll under the
statistic (avoid the effect)?
A: No. A roll of `6' on the die is always considered a failure. [Battle Magic, p. 41 & Arcane Magic,
p. 6]

18.3 Targeting Characters
Q: Is there any restriction on targeting characters with spells or magic item effects?
A: Yes. A spell that effects a `unit' or `figure or unit' is governed by the same targeting
restrictions that apply to missile fire. If the spell can do a lot of damage to a unit, the spell caster
is going to kill as many people as possible.
If a spell affects a `single model', then characters can be targeted with impunity. Even if the
character is within a unit they may be targeted. [Arcane Magic, pp. 5-6]
Q: A enemy mage targets a monster mount for another mage. Can the mage mounted on the
monster use rebound, destroy spell, and other affects that count for 'mage' or 'unit mage is in'?
A: Yes. [Primarch]

18.4 Rebounded/Reflected Spells
Q: Can a device that protects a unit from magic work against a spell which has bounced off a
unit carrying the Spell Shield or Banner of Arcane Warding?
A: Yes. [Primarch]

18.5 Spells Damage to Chariots
Q: Is damage done to a chariot by a spell randomized?
A: The are two types of spell damage done to a chariot that are randomized per the charts in the
rule book.
One is the damage done by a spell that states "the first model hit suffers a strength x hit that
causes y wounds". This "first model in path" spell hits a random part of the chariot to do its
damage.
The other type of damage done by a spell that is randomized is the spells that state "the unit
suffers x strength y hits". Once the number of hits is determined, randomize where each hit
potentially wounds.
Template spells affect everything under the template. Spells that can target a single model for
damage can target any part of the chariot. [Primarch]

18.6 Magical Movement Spells
Q: Can I use a magical movement spell to move an enemy unit into the middle of impassible
terrain?
A: No. [Battle Magic & Primarch]
Q: Do magical movement spells such as Grey Wings, Wings of Fire, and Skitterleap move

characters & their monster mounts/chariots?
A: Yes. [Arcane Magic, pp. 5-6]
Q: There are some spells that specifically say `if moved into contact with the enemy the unit
counts as charging'. If a spell does not have this statement, can it move units into contact with
the enemy? Do these magically moved troops count as charging?
A: Yes and No. [Primarch]
Q: Do chariots moved by magic means cause damage to units as if charging the unit?
A: The chariots get their charge damage only if the magic movement spells states `counts as
charging if moved into hand to hand combat.' [Primarch]
Q: Can a champion be moved out of a unit with a magical movement spell?
A: No. Unlike other characters, the champion character cannot leave his unit as he wishes, and
this applies to magic spell movement as well.
Some spells allow the breaking up of units, and these can target the champion of a unit.
[Primarch]
Q: Can the hand of Gork spell move trolls and ogres that are in the orc and goblin army?
A: No. [Primarch]
Q: Can a magical movement spell move a unit out of hand to hand combat?
A: Yes [Primarch]
Q: Can a magical movement spell move a unit into hand to hand combat with an enemy unit
that is not in line of sight?
A: Yes. [Primarch]
Q: Does the dwarven rune of slowness affect units that are magically transported into combat
with the dwarf unit? Does it only affect spells that state `counts as charging?'
A: The dwarven rune of slowness does not affect units magically transported. [Primarch]
Q: When do you resolve fear tests for magically transported troops?
A: No test is required. [Primarch]
Q: When using a magical movement spell that moves a unit up to x inches do you have to
guess the amount the unit is moved, or can the measurements be made to properly locate the
unit?
A: Move the unit if within range, no guessing required. [Primarch]

18.7 Line of Sight
Q: Do you have to have line of sight to cast all spells, or is it only the "first model in the path"
spells?
A: You don't have to have line of sight unless the spell states so with text similar to "first model
in the path". [Primarch]

18.8 Magical Resurrection Spells
Q: When a magical spell brings a character back to life, are all the one time magic items that
were used by the character available again?
A: No. [Arcane Magic, p. 11]

18.9 Celestrial
Q: Can the crystal charioteer take an enemy model off of the table, and if so can it return?
A: Yes and No [Battle Magic, p. 51] The enemy model gets one last attempt to break free before

it is taken off the table.

18.10 Dark Magic
Q: When a character casts the Dark Mist can he decide to end it in any phase or just in
subsequent magic phases.
A: Can end it in any phase. [Battle Magic]
Q: If a Chaos sorcerer casts Power of Chaos and rolls a 1 can the Escape special card from the
magic deck save him?
A: Yes. [Primarch]
Q: Can a wizard under the influence of The Transformation of Kadon use Mental Duel?
A: No. [Primarch]
Q: Blade Wind causes 3d6 hits minus the target weapon's skill. What if the target have no
Weapon Skill value (i.e. fanatics)?
A: It does 3D6 hits (treat WS as 0). [Primarch]
Q: If have a monster mounted mage using dark magic, and the mage uses the Power of Chaos
spell and the result is drawn into the Realm of Chaos does the mount go with the mage?
A: The monster goes too. [Primarch]

18.11 Grey Magic
Q. When casting Traitor of Tarn (Grey Magic), is a victim allowed to use leadership benefits of a
general or other leader for the regiment, or is the spell's leadership test strictly to be based on
the model's inherent leadership number?
A: It is based upon the modified leadership value (the value for the unit leader, or general.
[Primarch]

18.12 High Magic
Q: If the Tempest spell is used to drive down a creature from flying high, where can it land?
A: Anywhere on the board as long as it is more than 1" away from enemy troops. [Primarch]
Q: Can the high magic spell drain magic be dispelled before it
removes all the winds of magic cards from my hand?
A: No. [Drain Magic Spell Card]
Q: An army has a bright wizard in it as well as the Grand Theogonist, the Grand Theogonist has
High Magic Spells. Can the bright wizard exchange winds of magic cards?
A: No. [Primarch]

18.13 Jade Magic
Q: What happens if drain magic is played the same turn a mage casts earthblood?
A: Nothing. [Primarch]
Q: When models have been returned to life via the Jade Casket, are they removed again when
the Drain Magic card is played (we know this is the case with Apotheosis since it remains in
play, but according to Arcane Magic Jade Casket does not)?
A: They are removed again. [Primarch]
Q: When doe the Jade Magic Earthblood spell get the first D6 winds of magic cards?
A: Roll the 2D6 for winds of magic, then roll D6 for the Earthblood mage. The Earthblood then

takes his D6 out of the 2D6, the rest of the 2D6 are then distributed evenly between the 2
players. [Primarch]

18.14 Necromantic Magic
Q: What saves would you receive against the Hand of Dust spell?
A: Normal armor saves are allowed. [Primarch]
Q: Can opponents use special abilities (such as wardancers) or chaos gifts against an undead
unit affected by Vanhels? The rule book says the opponent cannot fight or strike blows, but
saves and magic saves are allowed.
A: Wardancers cannot use their special ability during the magic phase, and chaos gifts cannot
be used to give chaos troops attacks during the magic phase. Chaos gifts can be used to re-roll
daemonic saves, and to provide saves versus wounds. [Primarch]
Q: A wight created by the Hand of Dust spell keeps all former possessions, including magic
items. Are chaos rewards also maintained?
A: Yes. [Primarch]
Q: When a raise the dead is used to create a Skeletal Chariot or a Screaming Skull Catapult is it
possible to create a partial chariot or a partial Screaming Skull Catapult? (For example, a
chariot w/1 steed, or a catapult w/2 crew)
A: No. [Primarch]
Q: Is it possible to raise additional skeleton crew members for a catapult beyond the limit of 3
(so you can have 4, 5, 6 crew members, etc.)?
A: No. [Primarch]
Q: When raise the dead is used to increase the size of an existing unit, are the additional
members of the unit taken into consideration when determining victory points for the unit (if
destroyed)?
A: No. [Primarch]
Q: Can characters who fall into the categories of mummy, wraith, or wight be affected by van
hels danse macabe if they are by themselves? If they are with a valid unit? Are other characters
affected if they are in a valid unit?
A: A character who is a mummy (Settra), wight, or wraith that are not in units are affected by van
hels danse macabe. Other characters (necromancer, liche, vampire) are only affected if they are
in units of undead troops (where the undead troops are affected by van hels danse). [Primarch]
Q: Can `Raise the Dead' raise new units in contact with the enemy, and if so do those units
count as charging?
A: Yes and No [Battle Magic, p. 53]
Q: Can I raise the dead in a fleeing unit and destroy it?
A: Yes. [Primarch]

18.15 Skaven Magic
Q: What is the interaction between the Skaven magic spell Cracks Call and the Dwarven Throne
of Power? Does the Throne save as a chariot or other war machine? Does it save based on the
bearers' initiative (since they touch the ground)?
A: The Throne of power saves based upon the bearers initiative. A house rule is suggested that
allows the Throne of Power to be treated as a chariot. [Primarch]
Q: Does the Cracks Call require line of sight?
A: No. [Primarch]

Q: If the line of effect from Cracks Call passes under a character who is part of a unit, does the
character get a Look Out Sir roll to avoid the effect?
A: No. [Primarch]
Q: Does Cracks Call affect flying chariots (like Arkhan's)?
A: It does not affect the chariot when it is flying high, otherwise yes. [Primarch]
Q: Does the Screaming Bell move with the Grey Seer if Skitterleap is cast on the Grey Seer?
A: Yes. [Arcane Magic, pp. 5-6]

18.16 Waaagh Magic
Q: Does the Waaagh Number for shamans affect the number of winds of magic cards that they
receive?
A: No. The orc/goblin player receives winds of magic cards the same as any other player.
An orc/goblin shaman must have a Waaagh number of at least 1 in order to be able to cast
spells.
Savage orc shamans in savage orc units do receive an extra winds of magic card. [Battle Magic,
p. 29]
Q: What units can the Hand of Gork be used to move from the Orc & Goblin army list.
A: The Hand of Gork should be allowed to move all orc and goblin army units except Monsters,
Snotlings, Snotling Pump Wagons, Trolls, Ogres, and Giants. [Primarch]

19.0 General Information on Magic Items
19.1 Limits on Magic Items for Characters
Q: Are characters limited on what magic items they can take (up to their maximum)?
A: A character can take at most 1 magic weapon, at most 1 magic suit of armor, and at most 1
magic shield. The only characters that can take magic banners are battle standard bearers.
[Battle Magic, p. 38, Arcane Magic, p. 8-9]
Dwarf characters are limited to 1 magic armor, 1 magic item, and 1 magic weapon maximum.
[Dwarf Army Book, p. 24]
House Rule: It is suggested that all characters other than mages be restricted to 1 magic hand
to hand combat weapon, 1 magic missile weapon, 1 magic suit of armor, 1 magic shield, and 1
magic item. In this restriction, treat Devices of Protection the same as magic suits of armor.
Mage characters would be restricted to 1 device of protection, 1 magic weapon, and as many
other magic items as they desire.

19.2 Knowledge of Enemy Magic Items
Q: Do I have to tell my opponent what magic items my figures have?
A: No. Nowhere in the rules does it state that you have to do this, and there is a magic items
whose power is to reveal enemy magic items. [Battle Magic & Arcane Magic]

19.3 Uniqueness of Items
Q: May an army have more than one of a particular magic item (such as Book of Ashur or
Frostblade)?

A: No, the only exceptions to this are specifically stated. Some exceptions stated are power
scrolls, dispel scrolls, destroy spell scrolls [Battle Magic, p. 38], Runefangs [Empire Army Book,
p. 17], and chaos armor.[Chaos Army Book, p. 15].
Q: Most magic items are limited to 1, but Battle Magic states that there is no limit to the number
of scrolls and potions that an army can cary with it. Which Potions and scrolls are unlimited?
A: Dispel, Power, and Destroy magic scrolls are unlimited, as is healing and strength potions. All
other scrolls (skaven Warpscroll, Bufo's magic hex scroll, etc.) all restricted to 1. [Primarch]
Q: In a battle, can both opposing armies have the same unique magic item?
A: Yes. [Battle Magic, p. 38]
Q: Can a unique magic item be reused between an army and its allies.
A: No. [Battle Magic, p. 38]

19.4 Dispelling Affects of Magic Items
Q: Can the effects of a magic item be dispelled?
A: If the effects of the item are considered to be a spell, yes, otherwise no. [Battle Magic, p. 39]
Q: Can the effects of a magic item be powered with the total power winds of magic card?
A: No. [Primarch]
Q: Can I use a Destroy Spell Item (such as destroy spell scroll, hungry maw, spelleater shield)
to dispel spells cast by magic items? If the Destroy Spell effect is going to destroy the spell, is
that item no longer usable (spelleater shield eats the spell from the Firestorm Icon)?
A: Yes they can be used to dispel the spell, and if they destroy the spell it breaks the magic
item. [Primarch]

19.5 Multiple Helms/Crowns
Q: Can a character have 2 crowns, such as the crown of sorcery and the crown of command?
A: No. Arcane Magic strictly forbids a character from wearing 2 crowns or 2 helms. [Arcane
Magic, p. 11]
Crowns can be worn with helms. Arcane Magic specifically allows that.
The following magic items are considered crowns (may use 1 with 1 helm): War Crown of
Saphery, Crown of Sorcery, Dragon Crown of Karaz, Crown of Command, Tomb King's Crown
The following items are considered helms (may use 1 with 1 crown): Dragonhelm, Golden Helm
of Atrazar, Helm of Many Eyes

20.0 Wizard Only Magic Items
20.1 Magic Staffs (general)
Q: A mage has a magic staff, such as the staff of flaming death. Can the mage use the staff as a
hand to hand combat weapon? If so, is the magic staff considered a magical weapon?
A: No and No. [Primarch]
House Rule: It is suggested that magical staffs can be used as hand to hand combat weapons,
and if so, count as magical weapons.

20.2 Book of Ashur

Q: When a wizard takes the book of ashur, does he gain a wizard level as well as an additional
spell? Can he become a level 5 wizard?
A: Yes and Yes. [Primarch]
Q: Is the point cost of the Book of Ashur correct? Compared to the Book of Nagash (100 points)
and the High Elf War Crown (125 points) it looks like a steal.
A: Technically, the Book of Ashur costs 50 points. At the end of the battle roll a die for the spell
caster taking the Book of Ashur to see if he wanders off into the wasteland. If he does, the
opponent gets the victory points for him. [Arcane Magic, p. 17]
Q: Can a character combine the Book of Ashur with the Book of Nagash or the War Crown of
Saphery to become a level 6 or 7 spell caster?
A: No.[Arcane Magic, p. 17]
Q: The Ring of Corin (or some equivalent) is used to destroy the Book of Ashur, what happens
to the character who has it?
A: That character looses 1 magic level, and looses all spells gained by using the Book of Ashur.
Those spells lost may not be replaced by spells from the mages original spell deck. [Primarch]
House Rule: It is suggested that one of the following 2 house rules be used.
Option #1 would be that the player pays 50 points for the Book, and makes the die roll before
the battle to see if the spell caster with the Book of Ashur wanders off into the wastelands.
Option #2 would be that the player pays 150 points for the Book of Ashur, and makes the die roll
after the battle to see if the spell caster with the Book of Ashur wanders off into the wastelands.
Under either option, if the spell caster fails the die roll, the opponent gains victory points for the
lost spell caster.

20.3 Book of Nagash
Q: In an undead army with 3 Necromancers, can each one of them have a book of Nagash?
(the card states that there are 9 books)
A: No. [Primarch]
Q: Can liches and vampires use the book of nagash? Can manfred von carstein use the book of
Nagash? how about Heimlich Kemmler?
A: Yes on all accounts. The Book of Nagash Magic Item card should allow Liches and Vampires
to take it. [Primarch]

20.4 Carstein Ring
Q: A vampire undead army general dies and is brought back by the ring of carstein, does the
undead army test to turn into dust?
A: No. [Primarch]
Q: Can Settra use the Carstein Ring?
A: No. The Carstein ring is limited to (Vampire Only) Settra is allowed to use items that are
limited to (Vampire, Liche or Necromancer only). [Arcane Magic, p. 11 & Undead Army Book,
pp. 96-97]
Q: When the Carstein Ring brings the vampire back to life, are all the 1 time magic items that
were used by the vampire available again?
A: No. [Arcane Magic, p. 11]
Q: The Carstein Ring brings back the vampire when he is killed; but what if vampire flees from
the table? In this case does the ring work?
A: No. [Primarch]

Q: A vampire with the ring of carstein is caught fleeing and cut down, does the ring of carstein
bring the character back to life? What if the vampire is in a unit that starts to flee and has been
reduced to less than 25% of its original size?
A: Yes and Yes. [Primarch]

20.5 Chaos Familiar
Q: Can the Chaos Familiar be used to modify any die roll in the game, or only die rolls that
directly affect the character? What if the die roll that directly affects the character is made by the
opposing player?
A: The chaos familiar can only modify die rolls that directly involve the character, and it cannot
be a die roll that the opponent makes.
Q: Should chaos familiars limited to chaos sorcerers and beastman shamans only?
A: Yes. [Primarch]

20.6 Familiars
Q: Can the ring of corin be used to destroy familiars?
A: No. [Primarch]
Q: What is the movement value of a mounted spell caster that has a familiar?
A: When a spell caster has a familiar, and is mounted on a steed or monster it is assumed that
the spell caster carries the familiar with him. Therefore, the spell caster gets to move at the rate
of his mount. When the spell caster stops moving, place the familiar next to him. [Primarch]
Q. Does the listing of familiars in the Magic Item lists in Arcane Magic imply that now familiars
are to be considered as magic items, subject to the same limitations?
A: Yes [Arcane Magic, pp. 17-18]

20.7 Skull Staff
Q: Can a mage with the skull staff force hidden assassins with magic items to reveal
themselves? Can that mage then target the assassin with spells or missile fire? Can the
assassin `surprise attack' that character?
A: The character knows that the assassin is in the unit, but may not target the assassin with
spells or missile fire. The assassin may not `surprise attack' the character with the skull
staff. [Primarch]
Q: If a Gyrocopter, engraved with the rune of disguise is within 12" of a character carrying the
Skull Staff, can the character target the Gyrocopter for spells? For Missile Fire? Is the
Gyrocopter revealed?
A: No, No, and No. Although the character `knows' the Gyrocopter is there, and even roughly
where it might be, he can't attack it because he can't actually see it. [Primarch]

20.8 Staff of Volans
Q: Do the Staff of Volans have to be used for every spell the Supreme Patriarch casts?
A: No. Arcane Magic states that the bearer _can_ use the staff to cast spells with Total Power,
thereby implying its use is optional. [Arcane Magic, p. 17]

20.9 Talon of Death
Q: Can the automatic wound caused by Talon of Death be saved?
A: Yes. [Primarch]
House Rule: The Primarchs suggest that no normal armor saves are allowed against magical
items that inflict automatic wounds. Automatic hits can be saved against, however.

20.10 Warrior Familiar
Q: Does the dwarven rune of slowness affect units that are magically transported into combat
with the dwarf unit?
A: The dwarven rune of slowness does not affect units magically transported. [Primarch]

21.0 Devices of Protection
21.1 General
Q: Do any of the devices of protection defined in the Arcane Magic book count as armor and
prevent mages from casing spells?
A: No. [Arcane Magic, p. 9, & Primarch]
Q: Do devices of protection allow a save versus wounds against affects that normally don't allow
an armor save, even an magic armor save?
A: The device of protection save versus wounds is not an armor save and is therefore not
modified by attacker's strength. The device of protection save versus wounds is not an armor
save and thus applies even when armor saves are not allowed. [Arcane Magic, p. 9, &
Primarch]
Q: Can a character wear a device of protection and armor? Can a character wear a device of
protection and magic armor?
A: Yes and Yes. [Primarch] It is suggested that armor/magic armor saves be done before device
of protection saves versus wounds.
Q: Can a character wear two devices of protection?
A: Yes. [Battle Magic, p. 38, Arcane Magic, p. 8-9]
Q: Can a dwarf character use both the Rune of Spite and a Device of Protection?
A: No. A Dwarf Character cannot have 2 magic items of the same type. [Dwarf Army Book, p.
24]
Q: When is Device of Protection wound save made against weapons that cause multiple
wounds?
A: If 1 wound will be turned into many wounds by the weapon, make the roll to save the wound
before the 1 wound is turned into many wounds. [Primarch]
A weapon with the Dwarf Rune of Smiting generates its multiple wounds before the Device of
Protection save. This rune is an exception to the way all other magic weapons are treated.
[Dwarf Army Book, p.26]
House Rule: It is suggested that characters be limited to only 1 device of protection.

21.2 Black Amulet
Q: Do wounds reflected by the Black Amulet affect combat resolution?

A: yes. [Primarch]
Q: If the Black Amulet rebounds a wound from a weapon with a special effect, does the special
effect happen to the attacker?
A: No. The Black Amulet reflects the wound, not the special effects of the weapon that caused
the wound. Therefore, weapons that turn 1 wound into multiple wound when rebounded only
cause 1 wound, and a wound rebounded from a Frostblade does not kill the attacker.[Primarch]
Q: A figure on a chariot attacks and causes a wound in hand to hand combat, that wound is
rebounded by the black amulet/rune of spite. Is the rebounded wound randomized onto
chariot/riders/drawing beasts?
A: No, the rebounded wound affects the model that causes the original wound. [Primarch]
Q: A model with 4 attacks and 1 wound attacks another model that has a black amulet/rune of
spite. What if the first attack wounds, ant that wound is rebounded onto the attacker, do the
other attacks have any effect (is the attacker dead before his additional attacks)?
A: For a single model all to hits rolls are taken together, then all to wound rolls, then all saves for
the victim. The only exception is when a model makes attacks with different initiative values (i.e.
a character riding a monster, or in a chariot), in which case all attacks with the same initiative
are made at the same time (i.e. for a character on a monster, roll the attacks for the character all
together, and the attacks for the monster all together).
Q: Does the black amulet only rebound wounds caused by hand to hand combat attacks, or
does it rebound any wounds caused during the hand to hand combat phase (does the black
amulet rebound wounds caused by other black amulets and the runes of spite, spells that cause
wounds in hand to hand combat phase, etc.).
A: The Black Amulet only rebounds wounds cause by hand to hand combat attacks from other
models, not wounds caused by 'devices' such as the black amulet or rune of spite. Spells that
cause wounds during the hand to hand combat phase wound not be rebounded. [Primarch]
Q: Does the black amulet rebound wounds caused by models attacking the bearer in the magic
phase due to Van Hels Danse Macabe?
A: Yes. [Primarch]

21.3 Golden Helm of Atrazar
Q: Is the Golden Helm of Atrazar considered magic armor or a device of protection?
A: The Golden Helm of Atrazar is considered a Device of Protection and not magic armor,
Arcane Magic is incorrect. [Primarch]
Q: Can wizards wear the Golden Helm of Atrazar and still cast spells?
A: Yes, it is a Device of Protection and not magic armor.[Primarch]
Q: When is the Golden Helm save made against weapons that cause multiple wounds?
A: If 1 wound will be turned into many wounds by the weapon, make the roll to absorb the
wounds before the 1 wound is turned into many wounds.
This is not explicitly stated in Arcane Magic, but it is believed that the Golden Helm of Atrazar
should be treated the same way as the Black Amulet. [Primarch]

22.0 Miscellaneous Magic Items
22.1 Boots of Flight
Q: A character riding a mount (considered a steed, not a monster) takes off using the boots of

flight, what happens to the mount?
A: A character riding a mount (or a monster, or that is in a chariot, etc., for that matter) may not
use the Boots of Flight. [Boots of Flight Magic Item Card & Primarch]
Q: A character wearing the boots of flight looses a round of hand to hand combat, but passes
his break test, is he driven off?
A: If the wearer used the boots to get into the combat he would be driven off in the same way as
any other flier. [Primarch]
Q: Does a character wearing the boots of flight get to `march-fly'?
A: No. [Primarch]

22.2 Bugman's Tankard
Q: Bugman's Tankard cannot be used during the hand to hand combat phase, however there is
no such restriction for the missile fire and magic phase. Can I use the Tankard during the missile
fire and magic phase to restore wounds to models (rank and file troopers, champions,
characters) that would otherwise die during that phase from their wounds?
A: Yes. [Primarch]

22.3 Crown of Command
Q: When the characters leadership is increased by the crown of command, is the leadership 10
used for all psychology tests?
A: Yes. [Arcane Magic, p. 11]
Q: If the general has the crown of command, do all units within 12" get to his 10 leadership for
psychology and break tests?
A: Yes. All unit with n 12" get to use the general's 10 leadership value, however units that the
general is not in do not get the `unmodified 10 leadership value' for break test. All units other
than the unit the general is in have there break tests modified by the combat resolution as
normal. The crown enhances the person's leadership for those in the unit with him, those far
away are not as inspired by the crown. [Primarch]
Q: If an empire unit's leader has the crown of command, does a detachment of that unit (within
6") get to use the unmodified 10 leadership for break tests?
A: Yes. This would be allowed because detached units get to use that character's leadership
anyway, and are considered `part of the unit.' [Primarch]
Q: Does an orc character wearing the crown of command riding a boar take break tests at -1
Leadership (due to boar)?
A: Yes. [Primarch]

22.4 Crown of Sorcery
Q: Can a character wearing the crown of sorcery wear armor and still cast spells?
A: Yes. [Arcane Magic, p. 10]
Q: Is a character wearing the crown of sorcery counted towards winds of magic?
A: Yes. [Primarch]
Q: Is a character wearing the crown of sorcery affected by items that only affect spell casters?
A: Yes. [Primarch]

22.5 Gem of Gnar
Q: Is the Gem of Gnar considered a spell effect and therefore affected by anti-spell items from
the opponent character?
A: No. [Gem of Gnar Magic Item Card]
Items that target magic items (to destroy/disable) do work against the Gem of Gnar before its
activated, but not after. [Primarch]
Q: Can a spell caster use the `Escape' Winds of Magic card to avoid the Gem of Gnar?
A: No. The `Escape' Winds of Magic card can only be used when the spell caster would
otherwise be killed, and the Gem of Gnar does not kill the spell caster. [Battle Magic, p. 27 &
Arcane Magic, p. 12]
Q: If a charging chariot hits a character with the Gem of Gnar, what happens?
A: The character with the Gem of Gnar can activate before he and his unit are run down by the
chariot. Thus, the chariot/rider/harnessed beasts and the Gem of Gnar character are all frozen
before the chariot causes any casualties. [Primarch]
Q: Can a single character with the Gem of Gnar move into contact with a character in a unit and
`suspend that character in time'?
A: It depends. When a character comes into contact with a unit it is suggested that the
challenge phase is played out first. Therefore, when a single character with the Gem of Gnar
charges a unit, the unit champion can challenge the Gem of Gnar character first. Then, if the
Gem of Gnar character survives, he can be placed in base to base contact with whomever
character he can reach and he can activate the Gem of Gnar. If the Gem of Gnar character is
killed in the challenge, the rest of the characters in the unit are spared.
This provides players with a method of protecting their generals/good spell casters (by placing
them in units with champions). [Primarch]
Q: If a gem of gnar has been activated, and a character with the sword of destruction come into
base to base contact with the gem bearer, are the gem bearer & enemy model released from
the time warp?
A: No. [Primarch]
Q: If a character wearing the gem of gnar comes into base to base contact with a character
wielding the sword of destruction, can the gem bearer activate the gem?
A: No. [Primarch]
Q: Does the Drain Magic card from the winds of magic deck drain the effects of magic items like
the black gem of gnar?
A: No. [Primarch]

22.6 Helm of Many Eyes
Q: The Helm of Many Eyes allows all the character to always strike first. What if he is armed
with a 2-handed-weapons?
A: The character gets to strike first. [Primarch]

22.7 Horn of Defiance
Q: Can the Horn of Defiance be combined with another item, banner that increases combat
bonus?
A: Yes but note that the Horn of Defiance only doubles rank bonus, not other combat resolution

effects. [Primarch]

22.8 Lifestone of Ashraaz
Q: When can I use the Lifestone of Ashraaz to swap wound totals?
A: The Lifestone can only be used at the very beginning of the combat phase. [Primarch]
Q: Are the wounds a model looses due to the Lifestone applied towards combat resolution?
A: Yes. [Primarch]

22.9 Ring of Corin
Q: Can the ring of corin be used to destroy chaos rewards?
A: Yes. [Primarch]
Q: Can a character try to use the ring of corin to destroy a magic item he is not sure the enemy
has (in other words, you guess that the enemy has that item)?
A: No. [Primarch]

22.10 Silver Seal
Q: Is The magic item Silver Seal only available to Empire? The card states Empire only, but the
Arcane Magic Book does not?
A: The silver seal is empire only. [Primarch]

22.11 Talisman of Obsidian
Q: If the talisman of obsidian bearer is in base to base contact with the Anvil of Doom, can
magic cards be put in the Anvil of Doom? Can the Anvil of Doom still shoot lightening?
A: Yes and No. [Primarch]
Q: If a mage is in base to base contact with the bearer of the talisman of obsidian, can he put
winds of magic cards into a power familiar (or other power card holding device)?
A: Yes. [Primarch]
Q: Does the talisman of obsidian prevent magic users from using magic items as well as winds
of magic cards?
A: No, the talisman of obsidian only prevents the magic user's ability to cast spells and use
winds of magic cards. [Talisman of Obsidian Magic Item Card]
Q: Does the talisman of obsidian prevent the gem of gnar from working?
A: No.[Talisman of Obsidian Magic Item Card]

22.12 Tomb King's Crown
Q: All Tomb Kings and Settra have BS of 0 but the Tomb King's Crown allows undead within 12"
to use their BS, is this correct?
A: Yes. There is no BS increasing device that will help Settra or any of the other Mummy Tomb
Kings either. [Arcane Magic, p.11 & Undead Army Book, pp. 82, 96]
Q: Can the Tomb King's Crown be used in conjunction with the Blessed Sword?
A: No. The Tomb King's Crown effect only works when the bearer is not in hand to hand combat,
and the Blessed Sword effect only works when the bearer is in hand to hand combat. You
cannot be in and not in hand to hand combat at the same time. [Arcane Magic, p.11 & Blessed

Sword Magic Item Card]

22.13 Van Horstmann's Speculum
Q: If an enemy uses Van Horstmann's Speculum on a character riding a monster then which
Strength, Initiative and Attacks characteristics are used?
A: Use the riding characters statistics. [Primarch]

22.14 Warpstone Charm
Q: Can the Warpstone charm modify any die roll that the controlling army has to make, or only
any die roll that the holding character has to make?
A: The warpstone charm can only modify die rolls that directly involve the character, and it
cannot be a die roll that the opponent makes. [Primarch]

23.0 Magic Banners
23.1 Race Specific Banners
Q: Can a battle standard bearer be of a specific race (say forrest goblin) and take a race
specific banner (say spider banner) and then join a unit of a different race (say savage orcs)?
A: Yes. [Primarch]

23.2 Characters and Banners
Q: Can a character take a magic banner as one of his magic items?
A: Only the battle standard bearer may take a magic standard as one of his magic items. Other
that battle standard bearers, only unit standard bearers in units that are allowed magic
standards may take magic standards. [Battle Magic, p.38]

23.3 Bad Moon Banner
Q: The Bad Moon Banner allows all the members of the unit to always strike first. What if they
are armed with 2-handed-weapons?
A: They still get to strike first. [Primarch]

23.4 Banner of Arcane Protection
Q: Does the Banner of Arcane Protection (which works up to 6" away from the regiment and
works on any hostile spell including spells not cast at your unit) affect spells that magically move
the enemy into hand to hand combat with the unit?
A: The banner only affects spells cast at a target within 6" of the banner. Once a spell has been
successfully cast the banner can not effect it. Therefore, moved units and terrain have to be
within 6" of the banner when the spell is cast for the banner to get a chance to dispel. [Primarch]

23.5 Battle Banner

Q: Does the Battle Banner +D6 combat resolution bonus modify all of my armies hand-to-hand
combats?
A: No. The reference to `side' in the Battle Banner card text is referring to the `side' of the
hand-to-hand combat that the Battle Banner is involved in. The Battle Banner bonus only
applies when the character/unit carrying it is involved in the combat. [Rule Book, pp. 30-35,
Battle Banner Magic Item Card]

23.6 Doomrider Banner
Q: Do characters in a unit of skeletal cavalry with the Doomrider Banner automatically hit when
the unit charges?
A: No. The magic banner only effects mounted skeletons, so liches, necromancers, vampires,
wights, and wraiths are not effected. [Arcane Magic, p. 20]

23.7 Firestorm Icon
Q: Is the firestorm Icon supposed to be a magic banner? The card says its a magic item, but the
card text refers to a banner?
A: It is a banner. [Primarch]

23.8 Hell Banner
Q: Does the Hell Banner that affect a character wearing the crown of command?
A: Yes. [Primarch]
Q: Does the Hell Banner affect characters immune to psychology?
A: Yes. [Primarch]

23.9 Mork's War Banner
Q: Does the Mork's War Banner affect spell casting Daemons?
A: Yes, but only the figures in base to base contact with the bearer of the standard. Take these
casualties at the beginning hand-to-hand combat every turn. [Primarch].
Q: Does the Mork's War Banner affect characters wearing the crown of sorcery?
A: Yes. [Primarch]
Q: Does the Mork's War Banner affect characters wearing the Talisman of Hoeth?
A: Yes. [Primarch]

23.10 Standard of Shielding
Q: Is the Standard of Shielding save considered an armor save and thus negated by affects that
have `no armor save' (such as war machines)?
A: Standard of shielding save is not an armor save. [Primarch]

24.0 Magic Armor
24.1 Best Possible Armor Save

Q: Is is possible to get an armor save better than 1+?
A: No. Even if circumstances give the character a 0+ or better armor save, treat it as a 1+ armor
save when applying armor save modifiers. [Primarch]

24.2 Heavy Armor and Orcs
Q: Orcs and Goblins are not allowed to wear heavy armor. Can orc and goblin characters get
magic armor that is considered heavy armor?
A: Yes, the orc and goblin characters can get any magic armor. [Orc & Goblin Book, p. 82]

24.3 Armor of Nagash
Q: Does the Armor of Nagash get a change to negate wounds caused by the Rune of
Spite/Black amulet?
A: Yes. [Primarch]

24.4 Armor of Fortune
Q: Does the Enchanted shield save bonus (+1 to armor save) affect the re-roll save given by the
Armor of Fortune and the Armor of Protection?
A: No. When a character wearing the Armor of Fortune/Armor of Protection misses their armor
save the enchanted shield does not affect the re-roll save provided by the magic armor.
[Primarch]
Q: A character is wearing the Armor of Fortune/Armor of Protection and has the dawnstone,
what armor saves does the dawnstone allow to be re-rolled.
A: The dawnstone only allows the original armor save to be re-rolled (the one modified by
attackers strength, and other devices of protection the defender has). If the armor save is
missed, and the dawnstone re-rolled armor saved is missed, then the unmodified save provided
by the armor is made. [Primarch]
Q: Some magic weapons modify armor save on their own (not a strength increase, etc.). Do
these magic items affect armor saves that are not modified by strength (those re-roll save at an
unmodified 5+, etc.).
A: No. [Primarch]

24.5 Armor of Skaldour
Q: Does the Armor of Skaldour (which give a re-roll of a missed save on 4+ even for devices
that don't allow armor save) provide a save versus war machines? Does it provide a wound
save versus magic spells?
A: Yes and No. [Primarch]

24.6 Dragon Armor of Aenarion
Q: Does the Dragon Armor of Aenarion confer a save against war machines?
A: No [Dragon Armor of Aenarion Magic Item Card]

24.7 Shield of Ptolos

Q: Doe the Shield of Ptolos allow a save against bolt throwers?
A: No. [Arcane Magic]

25.0 Magic Weapons
25.1 Armor Saves
Q: Which magic weapons prevent armor save?
A: The following lists indicate the effects of different weapons on armor save. If a weapon is not
listed, it does not prevent armor saves. [Arcane Magic]
Against the following weapons, only figures with magic armor get an armor save: Axe of Grimnir,
Gotrek's Axe, Morgor the Mangler, Fearfrost, Frost Blade, Hammer of Sigmar, Obsidian Blade,
Chaos Daemon Sword, Axe of Grom, Gromril Blade, Sword of Justice, Chaos Runeblade,
Banisher Sword
Against the following weapons, figures get no armor save: Black Axe of Krell, Runefang

25.2 Berserker Sword
Q: What happens if a champion wielding the berserker sword is within a unit bearing the banner
of defiance? The berserker sword says the character always pursues, but the banner prevents
the unit from pursuing.
A: The character pursues, the unit does not. [Primarch]

25.3 Destroyer Sword
Q: Can a character wielding the Destroyer sword gain a magic item above his magic item limit?
A: Yes [Primarch]

25.4 Dragon Slayer
Q: The Dragon Slayer causes fear in Dragons, yet Dragons cause terror, and therefore are
immune to fear. Are Dragons immune to the fear caused by the Dragon Slayer weapon?
A: No, the dragons fear the Dragon Slayer weapon even though they are immune to fear
normally. The bearer of the Dragon Slayer Weapon can only suffer from fear of a dragon, not
terror. [Arcane Magic, p. 13]

25.5 Dragon Bow
Q: Can the wieldier of the Dragon Bow shoot more than once in the missile phase?
A: Yes. The elector count should get to shoot the number of times equal to his attacks, up to 3.
[Arcane Magic, p. 15]

25.6 Dwarf Gouger:
Q: Are dwarfs and chaos dwarfs both considered `dwarfs' for the skaven only weapon `dwarf
gouger'?

A: Yes [Primarch]:

25.7 Hail of Doom Arrow
Q: Is the hail of doom arrow considered a magic weapon when it hits its target (for effects such
as daemonic save, creatures only wounded by magic weapons, etc.)?
A: Yes. [Primarch]

25.8 Sky Arrow
Q: Does the Magic Arrow come with a bow so that it can be given to characters that don't
normally have access to a bows?
A: Yes, this is specified on the card description for the magic item. [Sky Arrow Magic Item Card]

25.9 Sword of Destruction
Q: Does the sword of destruction nullify the capabilities of the dwarf Throne of Power when in
base to base contact with it (absorbing wounds, indestructible)?
A: No. [Primarch]
Q: Does the sword of destruction nullify the abilities of the dwarf Anvil of Doom?
A: No. [Primarch]
Q: Does the sword of destruction nullify the abilities of the Skaven Screaming Bell?
A: No. [Primarch]
Q: Does the sword of destruction nullify the abilities of the Cauldron of Blood?
A: No. [Primarch]
Q: A unit has a magic standard and the bearer of the sword of destruction is in base to base
contact with the unit. Does the sword of destruction nullify the magic banner's abilities?
A: If the sword of destruction bearer is in base to base contact with the unit standard bearer,
then the magic banner is nullified, otherwise it is not. [Primarch]
Assuming the magic banner is not affected by the sword of destruction, and that the magic
banner is the type all the models in the unit (standard of shielding +1 save, banner of might +1
to hit) any models in base to base contact with the sword of destruction bearer still gain the
benefits of the magic banner.

26.0 Dwarf Runic Items
26.1 Rune of Spite
Q: When do is the Rune of Spite rebound roll made against weapons that cause multiple
wounds?
A: If 1 wound will be turned into many wounds by the weapon, make the roll to rebound the
wound before the 1 wound is turned into many wounds.
When the Rune of Spite rebounds these wounds, the attacker only receives 1 wound (not D3, or
D6 or whatever). The special power of the weapon does not kick in when the wound is
rebounded onto the attacker. Therefore, if a wound from a Frost Blade is rebounded onto an
attacker; he suffers a wound, he is not killed. [Primarch]
A weapon with the Dwarf Rune of Smiting generates its multiple wounds before the Rune of

Spite save. This rune is an exception to the way all other magic weapons are treated against the
Rune of Spite. [Dwarf Army Book, p. 26].
Q: If the Rune of Spite rebounds a wound from a Frostblade, is the attacker killed?
A: No. The Rune of Spite reflects the wound, not the special effects of the weapon that caused
the wound. [Primarch]
Q: Can a character use both the Rune of Spite and a Device of Protection?
A: No. A Dwarf Character cannot have 2 magic items of the same type. [Dwarf Army Book, p.
24]
Q: Does a character get the Rune of Spite rebound roll against weapons that say the defender
gets no armor save, not even a magic armor save?
A: Yes. The special effect of the Rune of Spite is not considered an armor save. [Dwarf Army
Book, p. 30]

26.2 Rune of Luck
Q: Can the Rune of Luck be used to re-roll and die roll in the game, or only die rolls that
directly affect the character? What if the die roll that directly affects the character is made
by the opposing player?
A: The rune of luck can only modify die rolls that directly involve the character, and it cannot be
a die roll that the opponent makes. [Primarch]

26.3 Rune of Flight
Q: If I have a hammer with the rune of flying, can I throw it at chargers as part of a `stand and
shoot' action?
A: Yes [Primarch]

26.4 Ring of Corin vs. Runic Devices:
Q: If a Runic Device has multiple runes, does the Ring of Corin target a single rune on the
device, or the entire device with all of its runes?
A: The Ring of Corin targets the entire device [Primarch]
Q: If a Ring of Corin targets a war machine with runes inscribed upon it, does the ring of corin
have to exceed the point cost of the war machine plus the runes, or just the point cost of the
runes?
A: The Ring of Corin would have to exceed the point cost of the runes. The war machine would
still operate after its runes have been removed. [Primarch]

26.5 Engineering Runes
Q: Can I put engineering runes on the anvil of doom?
A: No. [Primarch]
Q: Are cannon balls shot from a cannon with the rune of fire considered magical weapons?
A: No. [Primarch]
Q: Are bolts shot from a bolt thrower with the rune of seeking considered magical?
A: No. [Primarch]

27.0 Dwarf Army Clarifications
27.1 Characters
Q: Can any of the dwarf characters ride monsters?
A: No. If the a character was allowed to ride a monster it would specifically state that in the
Dwarf Army book, since it does not, it is not allowed. [Dwarf Army Book, pp. 83-84]

27.2 Slayers
Q: When a slayer's strength increases to the toughness of his opponent, is that increased
strength used only for rolling to wound or does it affect armor save as well?
A: The strength increase affects armor save as well. There is a White Dwarf battle report that
handles this incorrectly. [Dwarf Army Book, p. 79]

27.3 Anvil of Doom & Throne of Power
Q: For the purposes of Magic Movement spells, is the Dwarf Anvil of Doom and its guardians
considered one model, or multiple models?
A: Multiple models. [Primarch]
Q: Are two wounds being absorbed by the throne of power counted towards combat resolution?
A: No. [Primarch]
Q: Can I place the Slayer King on a Throne of Power? Can I have a Slayer King in my army
aside from the special character?
A: The only slayer king available is the special character. The special character is not a high
king and therefore cannot be put on the Throne of Power. A Generic Dwarf General may be
considered a High King and put on the Throne of Power. [Dwarf Army Book & Primarch]
Q: Can a lightning bolt from the Anvil of Doom pick out a single model in my unit?
A: Yes. [Primarch]
Q: Do the dwarf champions that guard the anvil of doom get a magic item?
A: No [Primarch]
Q: Are the dwarf champions that bear the Throne of Power allowed a magic item?
A: No [Primarch]
Q: When does the dwarf army general have to put winds of magic cards into the anvil of doom,
right after the winds of magic cards are dealt, or the end of the magic phase?
A: At the end of the magic phase. [Primarch]

27.4 Felix & Gotrek
Q: When it comes to missile fire against these this inseparable pair of characters, are they
treated as a unit (no minus to hit, randomize wounds) or as individual characters (-1 to hit, can
target either character)?
A: They are treated as individual characters. [Primarch]

27.5 Runic Items
Q: A dwarf army has a mage in its ally contingent. Can the allied mage target invisible war

machines with spells (such as movement spells)?
A: No. [Primarch]
Q: Does the Master Rune of Death effect everything (characters, Daemons, Dragons, etc.)? If
so, what is the good of the Master Rune of Dragon/Daemons Slaying?
A: The master rune of death effects everything, as to the points value, we're happy with them!
[Primarch]
Q: Can I put Dwarf Engineering Runes (such as Rune of Disguise) on the Throne of Power?
A: No [Primarch]
Q: Can a rune of forging be put on a flame cannon?
A: Yes. The flame cannon is a `cannon' and the rune is allowed. [Dwarf Army Book, pp. 29, 63 &
Primarch]
Q: Can a rune of forging be put on a organ gun?
A: Yes. One rune of forging would protect the organ gun because it is considered a cannon.
Only 1 rune is required because there is no `1 rune per barrel' statement in the Dwarf Army
Book. [Dwarf Army Book, pp. 29, 62 & Primarch]
Q: Can a rune of disguise be put on the gyrocopter?
A: Yes, but once the gyrocopter shoots, it is visible for the rest of the game. [Dwarf Army Book,
p. 29]
Q: If a character has a runic device (weapon, armor, item) with multiple runes on it, how many
magic items does it count as?
A: A runic item counts as a single magic item no matter how many runes are on it. Therefore, a
Dwarf General can have 3 runic items with 3 runes apiece for a total of 9 runes held by 1 figure.
This also means that items that destroy/disable magic items will disable/destroy all runes on a
given item. [Dwarf Army Book, p. 24]
Q: Can a dwarf army have 2 cannons with the rune of forging?
A: The rune of forging can be on more than 1 cannon as long as the set of runes on each
cannon is unique.
The uniqueness rule for runes applies to all runes other than the armor rune of stone; this
means that it includes the war machine runes. [Dwarf Army Book, p. 24]
Therefore, 2 organ guns that just have the rune of forging is illegal. On the other hand, 1 organ
gun with (rune of forging) and another organ gun with (rune of forging, rune of disguise) is legal.
Q: When a bolt thrower with a rune of seeking shoots at a creature flying high, is it considered
long range?
A: Yes. [Primarch]

27.6 Flame Cannon
Q: The Dwarf book lists the flame cannon as having both a 12" and a 24" inch range. Which is
correct?
A: Maximum guess range is 12". [Primarch]

27.7 Hand Gun Unit
Q: If I have a hand gun unit w/2 ranks where the 2nd rank is elevated so that it can fire, can I
have both ranks shoot 1 turn, then both ranks reload the next turn.
A: Yes. [Primarch]
Q: When a hand gun unit swaps ranks to fire, does it suffer a -1 to hit penalty for movement?
When it swaps ranks does the unit `creep forward' a base width?

A: No and Yes. [Primarch]

28.0 Empire Army Clarifications
28.1 Non-Human Characters
Q: Can the Empire army take Ogre characters as described in the Beastiary?
A: No. If the Empire army was to be able to take these characters, they should be described in
the Empire Army Book. The Chaos Army book specifically describes the Minotaur lords, and
beastman champions allowed for Chaos Armies [Empire Army Book & Chaos Army Book].
House Rule: It is suggested that the Empire player be allowed to field Ogre characters as they
are described in the Battle Beastiary. The Empire Army would only be allowed to field Ogre
characters if it had a unit of ogres. The point cost for these characters is
Ogre: 40 Points
Ogre Champion: 110 Points
Ogre Chieftain: 240 Points
Ogre War Chief: 380 Points
The point costs for the ogre characters is the same as a minotaur character, and is the same as
the value published in the Citadel Journal. [Chaos Army Book & Citadel Journal]
Q: Can the Empire player be allowed to field Halfling characters?
A: No. [Empire Army Book] If the Empire army was to be able to take these characters, they
should be described in the Empire Army Book.
House Rule: It is suggested that the Empire player be allowed to field Halfling characters as
they are described in the Battle Beastiary. The Empire Army would only be allowed to field
Halfling Characters if it had a unit of Halflings. The point cost for these characters is:
Halfling: 4.5 Points
Halfling Champion: 27 Points
Halfling Hero: 58.5 Points
Halfling Lord: 90 Points
The point cost for halfling characters is based upon the point cost calculator from earlier
versions of Warhammer Fantasy Battle.
Q: Can the Empire army use dwarf characters with its dwarf units?
A: No. If the Empire army was to be able to take these characters, they should be described in
the Empire Army Book. [Empire Army Book]

28.2 Hand Gun Unit
Q: If I have a hand gun unit w/2 ranks where the 2nd rank is elevated so that it can fire, can I
have both ranks shoot 1 turn, then both ranks reload the next turn.
A: Yes. [Primarch]
Q: When a hand gun unit swaps ranks to fire, does it suffer a -1 to hit penalty for movement?
When it swaps ranks does the unit `creep forward' a base width?
A: No and Yes. [Primarch]

28.3 Detachments
Q: What are all the restrictions to Empire detachments?

A: The restrictions are:
1. Only state troops regiments may have detachments, and the detached unit must also be a
state troop regiment. The following units are state troop regiments: Spearmen,
Swordsmen, Halberdmen, Greatswords, Crossbowmen, Handgunners, Archers
2. A unit may have up to 1-2 detachment units.
3. The total number of figures in the detached unit must be equal to or less than one half the
number of figures in the main unit.
4. Detached units may not have champions or standards, other characters may join the
detached unit.
5. Detached units get to use the leadership values of the main unit.[Empire Army Book]
Q: Can dwarves or halflings be detached units? Can the Reiksguard Foot Knights have
detached units?
A: The Empire Army Book specifically states which units are state troops, and the Reiksguard
Foot Knights, dwarves, and halflings are not included in this list. Therefore, the Reiksguard Foot
Knights, dwarves and halflings cannot have detached units, nor be detached units. [Empire
Army Book, p. 18]
Q: An empire state troop of halberds has detached units of crossbow and bow. If the halberd
unit is in hand to hand combat, do the rank bonus of the detached units apply to combat
resolution (detached units not in hand to hand combat)? If a detached unit is in hand to hand
combat and the main unit is not, does the rank bonus of the main unit apply towards the combat
for the detached unit?
A: No and No. Only the units in the hand to hand can have their rank bonus apply. The detached
units are not considered extra 'ranks' for the main unit. [Primarch]
Q: A unit has detachments and it breaks and flees (or flees in terror/fear) do the detached units
flee automatically as well?
A: No. [Primarch]
Q: A character is in a main unit that has detachments. A detached unit gets involved in a
combat and the main unit is not, can the character in the main unit issue/answer challenges
issued in the combat with the detached unit?
A: No. [Primarch]
Q: Can detached units have champions?
A: No. [Empire Army Book, p. 18]
Q: Can detached units have standards?
A: No. [Empire Army Book, p. 18]
Q: A unit of halberds has a detached unit of longbow men. If the halberd unit is charged, can the
longbow men stand and shoot at those chargers (even if they would not be involved in the hand
to hand combat)?
A: No. [Primarch]
Q: Halberds with regimental standard and battle standard bearer with magic standard, and a
detachment of longbow men. If the longbow men are in hand to hand combat, do they get the
+1 combat resolution for the halberd unit standard? Do they get the +1 combat resolution for the
battle standard bearer? If the battle standard bearer has a magic standard, do the longbow men
get the magical benefits.?
A: No, No, and No. They only get the leadership benefits of the parent unit. [Primarch]

28.4 Empire General
Q: Can any of the characters in the back of the Empire Army Book lead the Empire Army?

A: Yes. [Empire Army Book, p. 7]

28.5 Magic
Q: Can any the Empire Army field Ice Mages?
A: You can field Ice Mages of any level as long as you have a single unit of Kislev troops in your
army. [Arcane Magic, p. 7]
Q: Does the Grand Theogonist count as a spell caster for winds of magic?
A: No. [Empire Army Book, p. 70]

28.6 War Machines
Q: If the war wagon is charged by the enemy, can the crew members of the war wagon select
the stand and shoot option?
A: Yes. [Primarch]
Q: Can I choose the weapons for the crew members of the War Wagon?
A: No. A lot of people would like to arm all the war wagon crew members with the long range
rifle so that they can shoot at specific enemy figures. [Empire Army Book, pp. 20-21]
Q: Is is possible to attack the commander of the steam tank?
A: No.[Empire Army Book, p. 35]
Q: How do spells affect the Steam Tank?
A: Use the Tank's Statistics for all spells, use the commanders leadership (leadership 10) for
leadership checks. [Primarch]
Q: If a steam tank hits models whose initiative are greater than 6, does a six always fail or do
they always escape?
A: They always escape. [Primarch]
Q: The steam tank does not engage in hand to hand combat, it runs over things. However, if the
steam tank runs over a fleeing unit is it destroyed?
A: Yes. [Primarch]
Q: Can I cast spells at the crew of the steam tank?
A: No. [Empire Army Book & Primarch]

28.7 Special Champions
Q: Can a unit of outriders have a champion?
A: No. [Primarch]
Q: Can a unit of flagellants have a champion?
A: No. [Primarch]

28.8 War Altar
Q: Does damaging the war alter affect its abilities?
A: Not until the war alter is destroyed. [Empire Army Book, p. 70]
Q: Is the Empire war alter is treated like a chariot for purposes of being attacked?
A: Yes. [Empire Army Book, p. 69]
Q: Friendly units w/in 6" of the War Altar never break and are immune to psychology. What if a
fleeing unit moves w/in 6", or if the War Altar itself moves in range... is the unit instantly rallied?

A: No. [Primarch]

28.9 Kislev Horsed Archers
Q: Can Kislev Horsed Archers shoot and flee like the Dark Elf Dark Riders? This seems like a
special ability for all mounted missile troops.
A: No. [Empire Army Book, pp. 52, 64]
House Rule: It is a suggested that Kislev Horsed Archers be allowed to shoot and flee.

28.10 Pistoliers
Q: How often do those pistoliers get to shoot?
A: Since the pistoliers have 2 guns, it is assumed that 1 is always loaded and can be used to
stand and shoot, shoot in the missile phase, or shoot in hand to hand combat. Note that the
pistol shot attack uses the pistoliers BS instead of WS to determine hits.[Primarch].

29.0 High Elf Army Clarifications
29.1 Prince Imrik
Move: 5 WS: 8 BS: 7 S: 4 T: 4 W: 3 I: 10 A: 4 LD: 10
He can have up to 3 magic items, and he can ride a Dragon, Great Dragon or Emperor Dragon.
If he rides a dragon of any kind, he must take the Star Lance as one of his three magic items.
[Chronicles of War, p. 11]

29.2 Units
Q: Can I take High Elf warriors give them spears and 2nd hand weapon so that every model in
the front rank gets 2 attacks and the 2nd rank can (when appropriate) get a spear attack?
A: No. The bonus attack for having a second hand weapon should only count when you use two
hand weapons, not a hand weapon and a different weapon like a spear (or lance, or whatever).
[Primarch]
Q: Do I have to take 5 Tiranoc Chariots to field any?
A: No. [Primarch]

29.3 Reaver Knights
Q: Can Reaver Knights shoot and flee like the Dark Elf Dark Riders? This seems like a special
ability for all mounted missile troops.
A: No. [High Elf Army Book, p. 65]
House Rule: It is a suggested that the Reaver Knights be allowed to shoot and flee.

30.0 Wood Elf Army Clarifications
30.1 Wardancers
Q: Does the initiative of the wardancers determine when their special ability occurs, or does it

occur before all attacks?
A: The special ability occurs before all attacks. [Primarch]
House Rule: The Primarchs suggest that the use of the following rule which will be in the Wood
Elf book: The War Dancers cannot use the same tactic in two combat phases n a row.
Q: wardancers can use the Shadows Coil to end the combat in a draw. Does this result apply to
just the wardancers and their enemy, or all units involved in the combat?
A: The fight is a with combat result of zero between Wardancers and their opponents alone,
other units affect combat resolution normally. [Primarch]
Q: Does the Collar of Zorga affect Treemen?
A: No. [Primarch]
Q: When wardancers are attacked with a charging chariot, can they use Shadow's Coil to avoid
the automatic hits?
A: No. [Primarch]

31.0 Chaos Army Clarifications
31.1 Daemons, Characters, & Units
Q: Can a greater daemon join units of rank and file troopers? Can they join units of lesser
daemons?
A: No and No. [Primarch]
House Rule: The Primarchs suggest that Greater Daemons be treated like character models,
and that they can issue and receive challenges, and join units.
Q: Can characters join units of daemons?
A: Yes. [Primarch]

31.2 Victory Points
Q: If a character is lost due to a chaos gift card (such as eternal struggle), does the opponent
get victory points for it?
A: Yes. [Primarch]
Q: If a character turns into a chaos spawn, does the opponent get victory points for it?
A: Only if the spawn is killed. [Chaos Army Book, p. 37]

31.3 Chaos Gifts
Q: If I draw the `spawn' chaos gift, do I have to use it on a character?
A: No, the `spawn' chaos gift can be used on any figure in the chaos army, whether it be a
character, monster, daemon, or rank and file trooper. [Chaos Army Book, p. 36]
Q: Do only characters get to use the chaos gifts?
A: No, chaos gifts can be used on any figure except daemons and chaos spawns. [Chaos Army
Book, pp. 13-14]

31.4 Chaos God Aligned Units
Q: Can you mix chaos character from different gods in the same unit?
A: No. [Primarch]

Q: What constitutes a Khorne unit, a Nurgle unit, a Slaanesh unit, and a Tzeentch unit?
A: A Khorne unit is lead by a champion of Khorne, a Nurgle unit is lead by a champion of
Nurgle, a Slaanesh unit is lead by a champion of Slaneesh, a Tzeentch unit is lead by a
champion of Tzeentch. The rank and file troopers for these units can be beastmen, minotaurs,
chaos warriors, centaurs, dragon ogres, etc.
A champion is considered to be any of the characters from that patron deity (champion, hero,
sorcerer, general, battle standard bearer, etc.). [Arcane Magic, p. 19]
This means that minotaur units led by champions of Khorne can use Khorne only magic
banners.
Q: Are all chaos god aligned units subject to fighting other chaos god aligned units?
A: No. That only applies to daemons. There is no check to see if Khorne Chaos Warriors will
attack Slaneesh Beastmen. [Chaos Army Book, p. 39]

31.5 Chaos Units, Champions, & Monsters
Q: Can a chaos wizard riding a cockatrice use a chaos familiar to add +1 to the cockatrices
petrify spell to increase its chances of working?(
A: No. [Primarch]
Q: Does a stone troll have all the abilities of a ordinary troll plus the dispel ability (and the same
cost)?
A: The special abilities are in addition to the abilities of an ordinary troll. [Primarch]
Q: What are the correct statistics for the gorgon, the chaos army book has 2 different values?
A: The values in the Beastiary section in the Chaos Army book are the correct ones.
Q: What is the correct leadership for a harpy 6 or 8?
A: The correct leadership value for a harpy is 6. [Primarch]
Q: The equipment list indicates that bows are not available to the chaos army, yet centaurs can
have bows, which is correct?
A: The Centaurs can have bows. [Chaos Army Book, p. 70]
Q: Can a centaur champion in a unit of centaurs with bows have a bow? Can a chaos champion
in a unit of centaurs with bows have a bow?
A: Yes and No. [Primarch]
Q: Do the beastmen units always have to take the leadership test for in-fighting?
A: The beastmen only have to take the in-fighting test if they are making a normal move, or a
march move. [Chaos Army Book, p. 44]
Q: What happened to chaos thugs, can chaos armies not include them anymore?
A: There are no more chaos thugs. [Chaos Army Book]

31.6 Characters turning into Chaos Spawn
Q: If a character riding a steed is turned into a chaos spawn, is the mount removed, or is the
character still riding it?
A: Mount is removed. [Primarch]
Q: If a character riding a demon steed (of a Chaos God) is turned into a Chaos Spawn, is the
mount removed, or is the character still riding it?
A: Mount is removed. [Primarch]
Q: If a character riding a monster is turned into a Chaos Spawn, is the mount removed, does it
roll on the Monster reaction table, or is the character still riding it?
A: Mount is removed, its turned into spawn with the character. [Primarch]

Q: When a character and mount is turned into the spawn, how many attacks and wounds does
the spawn have?
A: Same as the character, ignore the mounts attacks and wounds. [Primarch]
Q: When a character is flying high and turns into a Chaos Spawn, does it immediately fall and
die? (Presuming it does not gain the "fly" Chaos Gift).
A: Yes. [Primarch]

31.7 Daemons
Q: Do I have to do anything special to field a unit of daemons?
A: You must field a champion from a particular deity in order to field a unit of daemons from that
particular deity. The champion can be any chaos character. This means that to take a
Bloodthirster of Khorne, I need a champion, hero, general, or battle standard bearer of Khorne.
[Chaos Army Book, p. 71]
Q: Does anything affect the daemonic Save versus wounds?
A: Yes. First of all the daemonic save is modified by the strength of the attack, also, wounds
from a unicorn or magic weapon in hand to hand do not get a daemonic save. Wounds from
magic missile attacks still get a daemonic save (with appropriate strength modifier).
Chaos gifts can be discarded to allow a re-roll of a missed daemonic saves. [Chaos Army Book,
p. 39]

31.8 Khorne Specific Information
Q: If a khorne champion with the built-in chaos armor carries a sword of destruction, what
happens to the chaos armor? Does the magical properties get negated only? If so, does it turn
into heavy or light armor?
A: Technically, the bearer of the Sword of Destruction can have no other magic items, this
prevents Khornate Champions from using it. A house rule is suggested that allows them to use
it and the magical properties of the chaos armor are negated and it is treated as heavy armor.
[Primarch]
Q: Does Arbaal only get 2 magic items listed, or can he take 1 more?
A: He only gets the 2 listed. [Primarch]
Q: Is it D3 hits or D3 wounds for the Bloodthirster's axe?
A: D3 wounds once the creature is wounded. [Primarch]
Q: Is it D3 hits or D3 wounds for the Bloodletter's Sword?
A: D3 wounds once the creature is wounded. [Primarch]
Q: Bloodletters can be mounted on Juggernauts. What happens if a bloodletter is killed?
A: If the Bloodletter killed the Jugger must take a monster reaction roll. [Primarch]

31.9 Slaanesh Specific Information
Q: Do Steeds of Slaanesh confer an armor save bonus to riders? Do Steeds of Slaanesh affect
Daemonic saves if their riders are Daemonettes?
A: Yes and No. Note that Daemonettes riding steeds of Slaanesh have a 4+ daemonic save,
and a 6+ armor save. [Primarch]
Q: A slaanesh character is on a flying mount. The character looses a round of combat, is he
driven off?
A: Yes. The driven off rule applies in this case (the Slaanesh character is only immune to break

tests).
Q: A Steed of Slaneesh and disc of Tzeentch are considered steed because they have 1
wound, does that mean that you can buy barding to them?
A: No [Primarch]
Q: What is the proper cost for mounting a Deamonette on a Steed of Slaanesh,?
A: Mounting Daemonettes on Steeds of Slaanesh costs 25 points. [Chaos Army Book]
Q: Can a champion of Slaanesh ride a steed of slaanesh?
A: Yes. [Primarch]

31.10 Tzeentch Specific Information
Q: Do discs of Tzeentch confer an armor save bonus to riders?
A: yes
Q: If a Pink Horror is killed, can the newly raised blue horrors strike back?
A: The Blue Horrors can strike, as long as the Pink Horror had not already done so earlier in the
phase.
Q: Does a chariot pulled by discs of Tzeentch fly?
A: No. [Primarch]

32.0 Chaos Dwarves Army Clarifications
Q: Can a chaos only magic item be used by Chaos Dwarves?
A: Yes. [Chaos Dwarf Army Book] Chaos God specific item (Khorne Only, Slaneesh only, etc.)
cannot be used by Chaos Dwarves.
Q: A unit of Blunderbusses is accompanied by a champion. The champion has a better ballistic
skill than an ordinary trooper. How is shooting worked out?
A: The champion is treated as having the same BS as the regiment he is leading if he fires a
blunderbuss. [Primarch]

33.0 Dark Elf Army Clarifications
33.1 Allies
Q: Can the dark elves have skaven as allies?
A: No Please note that ally lists are _not_ reciprocal, in other words it is possible for a race to
appear as allies of another race, while not having that race in their own ally list. This simply
reflects the fact that to get a race as an ally there must be a good chance of a small contingent
of their troops serving in a large army of troops drawn from the main list. In the case of Dark
Elves and Skaven, for example, it seemed sensible to me (Jervis) that small contingents of Dark
Elves could serve in a Skaven army, but not vice-versa. [Primarch]

33.2 Scouts & Dark Riders
Q: Dark Elf scouts with their infiltration must be placed out of the enemies los, does this hold
true, even if I deploy them in my deployment zone?
A: No. [Primarch]
Q: Can characters join the scout units? The Dark Riders Unit?

A: Characters can join either unit, but note that they do _not_ benefit from either troops types
special rules. Thus a character with the Scouts can't infiltrate, and a character with the Dark
Riders can't make a free march move at the start of the battle or fire and flee. As a house rule I
recommend that you allow Champions belonging to such units to benefit from the troops special
abilities (so a Scout Champion could infiltrate, for example). [Primarch]

33.3 Special Characters
Q: Is Hellebron a witch elf and therefore subject to frenzy?
A: yes
Q: Can the witch king cast spells and wear armor?
A: Yes. [Primarch]
Q: Are with witch king's cold one chariot steeds subject to stupidity?
A: Yes [Primarch]
Q: Can an army have Malekith the Witch King on foot instead on the chariot?
A: The witch king always comes with the chariot, but may leave it voluntarily during the battle.
[Primarch]

33.4 Hatred of High Elves
Q: A dark elf unit is close to another fleeing dark elf unit, and a high elf unit. What test is taken
first, the hatred-must-charge-the-enemy or the panic test?
The panic test is taken first, and if passed, then the `must charge the enemy test is taken.
[Primarch]
Q: A dark elf unit is in hand to hand combat w/a larger High Elf unit that has the dread banner,
will the dark elves automatically break if the high elves win a round of hand to hand combat?
A: Yes. [Primarch]
Q: Do Witch Elves lose Hatred when fighting High Elves, because they go into Frenzy and are
immune to all other Psychology?
A: The witch elves loose hatred when they frenzy. [Primarch]

33.5 Shadowblade & Assassins
Q: Shadowblade, when disguised inside an enemy unit, reveals himself at the beginning of the
turn. Does this mean he can be challenged on the turn he appears?
A: Yes, he can be challenged. [Primarch]
Q: Can dark elf assassins put poison on magic weapons so that they cause D3 wounds when
used by an assassin?
A: No. Magic weapons *never* benefit from special rules that apply to a `mundane' weapon.
This is an expansion of the rules for magic weapons found on page 39 of Battle Magic.
[Primarch]
Q: Which units can have Assassins? The rules (p 40) say "you can hide Assassins in Dark Elf
infantry units". As there are no units called Dark Elf infantry I assumed that they could be hidden
in any non-cavalry unit. Then I read in the Dark Elf battle tactics (p 66) that they could not be
hidden in Scout units?
A: Dark elf assassins can hide in the following units: Executioners, Black Guard, Scouts,
Corsairs, Warriors, Spearmen, City Guard, Crossbowmen. [Primarch]
Q: If shadowblade is concealed in a unit Reiksguard knights with a 1+ save and I reveal him

does he have a 1+ armor save?
A: No. [Primarch]

33.6 Witch Elves
Q: Is the +1 strength due to poison included in the witch elf statistics?
A: No, the witch elves strength when attacking is 4. [Dark Elf Army Book, p. 36]
Q: Do witch elf characters get to put poison on their weapons?
A: Yes, but not their magic weapons (see Assassins above). [Primarch]
Q: What is the proper number of attacks for witch elves affected by the Cauldron of Blood in
their first round of combat?
A: 4.[Dark Elf Army Book & Primarch]
Q: What's the point cost for a Hag Queen?
A: There are only hag queens that can be purchased are the special characters listed.
[Primarch]

33.7 Errata Sheet
After the army book came out GWUK published an errata sheet, its contents are:
33.7.1 Repeater Bolt Throwers:

The rules on page 54 state that you may include up to two repeater bolt throwers
for each regiment of 10 or more `Dark Elf Warriors or Black Arc Corsairs'. This
should read `Dark Elf Warriors, Spearmen, Crossbowmen or Black Ark Corsairs'.
33.7.2 Har Ganeth Executioners

These are variously listed as having a strength of either 3 or 4, and an initiative of
either 6 or 7. The correct characteristics are strength 4 and initiative 6.
33.7.3 The Blood Banner

The Blood Banner magic standard should have a points value of 10 rather than
50.

33.8 Corsairs
Q: Can the corsair champion get a Sea Dragon Cloak?
A: Yes. It costs 5 points, and should count as a magic item. [Primarch]

34.0 Orcs & Goblins Army Clarifications
34.1 Allies
Q: Can Orcs & Goblins take the Chaos Dwarves as allies and get a second unit of black orcs?
A: Yes. [Dark Elf Book, p. 47]
House Rule: It is suggested that an orcs & goblins army with a unit of black orcs not be allowed
to get a unit of black orcs in a chaos dwarf ally contingent.
Q: Can I take the Chaos Dwarves as allies and only get a unit of hobgoblins?
A: Yes. [Primarch]
House Rule: The Primarchs suggest that due to the Orcs & Goblins mistrust of Hobgoblins that
when the Orcs & Goblins take Chaos Dwarf allies that no Hobgoblins be allowed in the ally

contingent.

34.2 Doom Diver
Q: Does a mob of goblin wolf riders count as a goblin mob for the purposes of getting Goblin
Doom Divers?
A: Yes. [Orc & Goblin Army Book, pp. 94, 88]

34.3 Giants
34.3.1 Characters Placed Into Bag

Comments about what happens when a character is picked up by a giant and
placed in his bag.
Q: Does a heart of woe kick in?
A: No, The character is not technically dead. [Battle Beastiary, p. 61]
Q: For vampires, does the carstein ring kick in?
A: No, The character is not technically dead. [Battle Beastiary, p. 61]
Q: For necromantic generals, does the army have to make leadership tests or turn into dust?
A: No, The character is not technically dead. [Battle Beastiary, p. 61]
34.3.2 Bawling Attack

Some Questions about the Giants bawling attacks.
Q: Should it affect units immune to psychology?
A: Yes [Battle Beastiary, p. 61]
Q: Should it affect units immune to break tests?
A: No. [Battle Beastiary, p. 61]
House Rule: The Primarchs suggests that units that are immune to psychology are immune to
the giants bawling attack.

34.4 Fanatics
Q: Can Hand of Gork be used to move goblin fanatics?
A: No, individual fanatics cannot be moved with the hand of gork. [Battle Magic, p. 56]
Q: When a fanatic ends its movement inside a unit, what is done?
A: Place the fanatic right next to one of the sides of the unit (on the outside of the unit). Choose
the side that is closest to the fanatics end position in the unit. [Primarch]
Q: When fanatics are launched, do they have to be all launched at the unit that is within 8"?
A: The player can choose what direction they go on the turn they come out. [Primarch].
Q: Can I move a unit with hidden goblin fanatics in it with the hand of gork?
A: Yes [White Dwarf #191]
Q: What happens if a magically movement causes a night goblin unit with hidden fanatics to be
within 8" of an enemy unit?
A: The fanatics are released in a random direction. [White Dwarf #191]
Q: What happens if a creature flying high lands within 8" of a night goblin unit with hidden
fanatics?
A: The fanatics are released in a random direction. [White Dwarf #191]

34.5 Goblins
Q: When goblins fear `elves' that they don't outnumber 2:1, does this include High Elves? Wood
Elves? Dark Elves?
A: Yes, Yes, Yes [Primarch]

34.6 Ogre Characters
Q: Can the Orc & Goblin Army field Ogre characters?
A: No. [Orc & Goblin Army Book]
House Rule: It is suggested that orc & goblin armies be allowed to field Ogre Characters if they
have a unit of ogres. See the section on Empire Army Specific Clarifications for point cost on
Ogre Characters.

34.7 Pump Wagons
Q: Do snotling pump wagons follow the same psychology rules as snotling bases?
A: No. [Primarch]

34.8 Savage Orcs
Q: Are protective tattoos considered magic armor for devices that only confer a save to magic
armor?
A: Yes. [Primarch]
Q: Protective Tattoos alone provides an un-modifiable 6+ armor save, but if the armor save is
improved by other means (such as shields) is that part of the armor save modified by the
attacker's strength?
A: The only parts of the armor save not modified by the attackers strength are the parts
provided by the Protective Tatoos (+1) and the Savage Orc Shaman in Unit (+1). The rest of the
Savage Orc armor save (Riding board for +2, shield for +1, Standard of Shielding for +1) are
modified by the attackers strength. [Primarch]
Q: Does the Savage Orc Shaman get the `Shaman in unit' bonus for his own protective tatoos?
A: Yes. [Primarch]

34.9 Special Characters
Q: Does Azhag the Slaughterer have to take his wyvern in as his monster mount?
A: Yes. [Primarch]
Q: When it comes to missile fire against Skarsnik and Gobbla, are they treated as a unit (no
minus to hit, randomize wounds) or as individual characters (-1 to hit, can target either
character)?
A: They are treated as individual characters. [Primarch]
Q: Is Morglum Necksnapper, who is immune to Psychology, at -1 Leadership because he rides a
Boar?
A: Yes. [Primarch]
Q: Morglum's Attacks characteristic is listed as 4; his description says he carries two hand
weapons. How many attacks does he get in HTH combat?

A: 5. [Orc and Goblin Army Book]

34.10 Squig Hunters
Q: Do squig hunters have two attacks, or does the prodder obstruct them from having those two
attacks?
A: Each herder gets 1 attack, so a 25mm x 50mm base w/2 herders gets 2 attacks. [Primarch]
Q: Does my champion in the second rank get to accept or issue challenges?
A: Yes. [Primarch]
Q: Can my squig hunter teams in the second rank be hit back?
A: Hunter teams in fighting ranks can be attacked, hunter teams in the second rank cannot be
attacked in place of squigs in the front rank. However, once wounds are applied to the unit, if all
the squigs in the front rank are killed, then wounds are applied to the hunter teams. [Primarch]
Q: When squigs fall casualty, do I have to maintain the unit's width, i.e. place herders along the
squigs, instead of keeping them in the second rank.
A: Yes. [Primarch]

34.11 Trolls
The following explains the particulars of regeneration
1. Regeneration occurs right after hand to hand combat occurs and before combat
resolution.
2. Wounds that are regenerated do not count towards combat resolution.
3. If a wound is not regenerated the turn that it is inflicted, it may not be regenerated in later
turns.
4. If the regenerating creatures strike last, a creature that suffers enough wounds to die, but
returns to life due to wounds returned by regeneration does not get to fight in that round of
hand to hand combat.
5. If a regenerating creature suffers any wounds from fire, it looses its ability to regenerate
wounds.
[Battle Beastiary p.15]
A regenerating creature that is caught fleeing is considered dead, and cannot regenerate
wounds to return. [Primarch]

35.0 Skaven Army Clarifications
35.1 Special Characters
Q: When Ikit Claw is the general, 25% of the points must be spent on war machines. Does this
include war machines brought by allied troops?
A: No, only skaven war machines count. [Primarch]
Q: When it comes to missile fire against Thanquol and Bone Ripper, are they treated as a unit
(no minus to hit, randomize wounds) or as individual characters (-1 to hit, can target either
character)?
A: They are treated as individual characters. [Primarch]
Q: Can Ikit Claw use all his shooting attributes during the same shooting phase e.g. warplock
pistol, poison globe, warpfire thrower?

A: No, he can only operate one missile weapon. [Rule Book & Primarch]
Q: Can you use Ikit in your army if he does not command it? That would require you to use the
warlord general in addition to Ikit Claw?
A: No, Ikit must be the general. [Primarch]
Q: Can I take Thanquol without boneripper?
A: No. [Primarch]
Q: Can Ikit Claw use his warpfire thrower and/or poisoned wind globes when in contact with
enemy troops?
A: No. [Primarch]
Q: Since Ikit Claw can take spells from any magic deck (save Orcs) can he have both High and
Dark magic spells during the same game?
A: Yes. [Primarch]
Q: Can boneripper accept/issue challenges?
A: Yes. [Primarch[

35.2 Poison Wind Globes
Q: Poison wind globadiers have to Evade when charged what does this mean?
A: They will move around the regiment they are part of, so charging troops do not get in base to
base contact with them. [Skaven Army Book, p. 52]
Q: When a poison wind globadier unit is being charged how do I work out stand and shoot?
A: Globadiers that are part of regiments can't stand and shoot, but skirmishing globadiers follow
normal rules. [Primarch]
Q: Do poison wind globes affect the empire steam tank? Does a `6' on the roll for poison wind
globes always a failure and the model overcome (die)?
A: Use the statics for the steam tank for the poison wind globes, it takes 5 wounds to kill the
steam tank. A'6' is always a failure. [Primarch]

35.3 Snikch & Assassins
Q: When the Deathmaster Snikch is in a skaven unit other than gutter runners, is he disguised
(like other assassins)? Can he leap out and make surprise assassin attacks on enemy
characters?
A: No and No. Snikch fights using the special rules in the army book - he lives the hiding in units
stuff to the ordinary assassins of the Clan Eshin. [Primarch]
Q: Does the 5 attacks for the Deathmaster Snikch include his 2 additional hand weapons?
A: No. He gets a massive 7 attacks in hand to hand combat! [Primarch]
Q: Are weeping blades considered magical weapons?
A: Yes. [Primarch]
Q: Can I field Skaven assassins on their own? Can they infiltrate?
A: No, but they can be included in units of gutter runners. [Primarch]

35.4 Plague Censor Bearers
Q: If a Plague Censor Bearer unit is in hand to hand combat, and the enemy casts Crimson
Bands on them so that they cannot attack in hand to hand combat, does the Fog of Death go
away?
A: Yes. [Primarch]

Q: Does a model have to roll 1 time to see if it is overcome by fumes, or 1 time per plague
censor bearer within 1".
A: The model has to roll 1 time. [Primarch]
Q: Are the fumes going all game long?
A: The Skaven general decides when his plague censor bearers start swinging the censors that
will cause the fumes. Once they start swinging the censors they have to make the test against
the fume and gain the -1 to be hit by missile fire modifier. [Skaven Army Book & Primarch]

35.5 Screaming Bell
Q: If the Screaming Bell is going to destroy war machines, does that effect the Skaven war
machines as well?
A: The Screaming Bell does not effect itself, nor warpfire throwers, nor jezzail teams. The
Skaven Doomwheel is affected. If other Screaming Bell's are present, they are affected.
[Primarch]
Q: If the unit pushing the skaven bell flees, do the grey seer and striker go with them?
A: No. They are immune to psychology and never break. [Primarch]
Q: When the striker dies can a skaven from the unit around the bell take his place?
A: No [Primarch]
Q: If the unit is killed, but the grey seer uses the escape card, when he comes back is the bell
back with him?
A: No [Battle Magic, p. 27]

35.6 Gutter Runners
Q: are there gutter runner champions?
A: Gutter runners cannot have champions, but they can have assassins. [Primarch]

35.7 Warpfire Throwers & Jezzails
Q: Can Warpfire Throwers & Jezzails stand and shoot at chargers?
A: Yes, but Warpfire Throwers cannot stand and shoot at chargers attacking from flying high.
[Chronicles of War, p. 5]
Q: Are Warpfire Throwers and Jezzails damaged by moving over rough terrain?
A: No. [Primarch]
Q: A unit of skaven jezzails shoot at a unit of beastmen, the skaven cause 3, 1, and 2 wounds,
how many beastmen die? (does the extra wound from the first jezzail wound another
beastmen).
A: 2 beastmen die, and another has 1 wound, the extra wounds from the jezzail are lost (same
as cannon balls). [Primarch]
Q: Are the flames from warpfire throwers considered magical? Are the bullets from Jezzails
considered magical weapons?
A: Yes and Yes. [Primarch]

35.8 Swarms
Q: When I have 4 rat swarms in my army (it is counted as one single swarm).If an enemy model
comes into contact with one of the 4 swarms, how many attacks do the swarms get?

A: Only the swarm in base to base contact with the enemy may fight, therefore 5 attacks.
[Primarch]

35.9 Skaven Doomwheel
Q: What is the saving throw mod. for warp lightning out of the Doomwheel?. Is it the modifier of
the current strength(6 -3, 8 -5, etc.) or just like warp lightning from storm-daemon or the warp
lightning spell: no save possible.
A: The save is modified by its current strength. [Primarch]
Q: When a Skaven Doomwheel is destroyed, what happens to the rats inside?
A: The rats die. [Skaven Army Book]
Q: Does the Skaven Doomwheel have to move like an individual figure (no turn arcs, etc.)?
A: The Skaven Doomwheel moves like other individual characters with no turn arcs. [Primarch]
Q: Is the lightening from the doomwheel considered magical?
A: No. [Primarch]
Q: Does the doom wheel only shoot when it moves? If I ram a unit and survive a round of
combat does it shoot again the next round?
A: No and Yes [Primarch]

36.0 Undead Army Clarifications
36.1 Settra
Q: Settra can have the Mummy Tomb King's Crown, but his BS is 0 (zero) is this correct?
A: Yes. Those around Settra can use his higher WS, but would not choose to use his horrible
BS. See the section in Magic Items on the Mummy Tomb King's Crown. [Arcane Magic, p. 11 &
Undead Army Book, p. 96]
Q: Can Settra use items that are Vampire only, Necromancer Only, or Liche only?
A: The wording in Arcane Magic is poor, so use the wording from the Undead Army Book, and
that is that Settra can use things that are Vampire, Necromancer, or Liche only.
(Vampire Only) does not equal (Vampire, Necromancer, or Liche only).
(Liche Only) does not equal (Vampire, Necromancer, or Liche only).
(Necromancer Only) does not equal (Vampire, Necromancer, or Liche only).
This means that Settra cannot have the Book of Nagash or the Carstein Ring. Settra can have
Staff of Damnation, Talon of Death, or the Tomb Blade. [Undead Army Book, p. 97 & Arcane
Magic, p. 17]

36.2 Undead Immunities
Q: Since undead are not living targets, are they affected by poison?
A: Unless a device specifically states that it does not affect undead, it does. This applies to witch
elves poison, etc. [Primarch]
Q: Since undead are immune to psychology, are they affected by Slaanesh effects that utilize
good looks?
A: No, the allure of Slaanesh still affects them. [Primarch]

36.3 Undead Generals
Q: A undead character is mounted on a skeletal chariot. If the character looses a round of hand
to hand combat, does the chariot sustain extra wounds based upon the combat resolution?
A: Yes. [Primarch]
Q: When the undead general flees from the table, is he considered `dead' and all the units have
to make a test or turn into dust?
A: Yes. [Primarch]
Q: The undead general is in a situation where he would have been killed, but he used the winds
of magic Escape card to avoid this fate. Can the undead general control his army from the void,
or must the army take a test to see if they turn into dust?
A: The undead general can still animate the army from the void, there is no tests for turning into
dust. [Primarch]

36.4 Vampires
Q: Are vampire characters considered living beings?
A: Vampires are considered living in the respect that they can march move, and are not immune
to psychology. Vampires are considered undead for all other things (such as banishment spell
and runefangs) [Primarch]

36.5 Units
Q: Does a wight battle standard bearer in a unit of wraiths benefit from the look out sir rule?
A: yes. [Primarch]
Q: Can you have wight or wraith champion in a unit of wights or wraiths?
A: No. The undead army book specifically states that wight and wraith champions can only be in
units of skeletons, zombies and ghouls. [Undead Army Book]
Q: Are creatures immune to non-magical weapons, immune to all breath weapon attacks?
A: Although not weapon attacks per se, breath attacks are physical attacks, and therefore they
would be immune. However, they should _not_ be immune to `gaze' attacks like those used by
the Gorgon or Cockatrice, as these are magical attacks used in the magic phase. They would
be immune to the following types of attacks: Dragons Breath, Greater Daemon Breath, Great
Taurus Breath, Chimera Breath. [Primarch]
Q: Are Wight Blades considered magic weapons?
A: Yes. [Primarch]

36.6 Nagash
Q: Is Nagash a greater daemon?
A: No. [Undead Army Book, pp. 88-89]

36.7 Break Test for Characters in Skeleton Units
Q: If a unit of skeletons with a character in it loses a round of combat, does the character have
to take a break test, or do extra skeletons just die?
A: Because a unit is immune to break tests/psychology does not mean that characters in the

unit are immune to break tests/psychology.
Therefore, if a wight, wraith, liche, vampire, or a necromancer is in a unit of skeletons and it
loses a round of hand to hand combat, two things happen:
1) Extra skeletons in the unit die. If more than 1 skeleton unit is involved in the hand to hand
combat, each unit loses an additional number of skeletons equal to the combat resolution.
2) Characters in the unit not immune to break tests, take break tests with the appropriate
combat resolution modifier. If the character fails its break test, it is destroyed, flees, etc.
[Primarch]

36.8 Hidden Units
Q: A unit of wood elf scouts are hidden in a building. The opponent's skeleton cavalry moved
through the building? How would you work this situation out?
A: No charge was declared so the skeleton cavalry are stopped 1" away and can be presumed
to have seen the scouts. They cannot pass through them. If the scouts don't charge or remove
themselves from sight they can be charged next skeleton turn. [Primarch]

36.9 Undead Chariots
Q: Since undead chariots can have crew and steed restored, should they be left on the table
when all the crew have been killed?
A: The controlling player can choose whether to leave it on the table (and only regenerate the
missing parts or to summon an entirely new chariot. [Primarch]

36.10 Charge Reactions
Q: Can undead units stand and shoot or flee from chargers?
A: Any unit that is considered undead (skeletons, zombies, mummies, carrion, wraiths, wights,
liches, ghosts, skeletal cavalry, skeleton chariots) cannot stand and shoot or flee from chargers.
This is due to the fact that they are just to slow in responding.
Ghouls, necromancers, and vampires can flee and stand and shoot as charge reactions.
[Undead Army Book, p. 58]
Q: Are there any undead units that can march move?
A: Ghouls, necromancers, and vampires can march move. [Undead Army Book, p. 58]

36.11 Spells
Q: What spells affect that affect living creatures don't effect undead?
A: Unless a spell specifically states that it does not affect undead, it does. [Primarch]

36.12 Miscellaneous
Q: Are carrion considered Large Monsters and thus +1 to be hit by missile fire? Do you have to
randomize hits between the carrion and their riders?
A: No and No. [Primarch]

37.0 Monster Clarifications
Q: What is the proper base size for the different monsters?
:A: There is no definitive base sizes for the different monsters, use what fits. [Primarch]
House Rule: It is suggested to mount monsters as follows: On 40mm square bases: Pegasus,
Griffon, Manticore, Wyvern, Dragon, Dark Pegasus, Hippogriff. On 25mm x 50mm bases:
Cockatrice, Unicorn, Gorgon
Q: What monsters are considered large and what monsters are not?
A: This is up to the players discretion. [Primarch]
House Rule: It is suggested that large creatures be mounted as described above, and that large
creatures on 40mm square bases be considered large. It is further suggested that collections of
small creatures on 40mm square bases (snotlings, Nurglings, swarms) do not be considered
large creatures. Monsters mounted on 25mm x 50mm bases should not be considered large.
Q: Can only creatures in contact with the monster's 40mm x 40mm base be able to attack the
monster?
A: Allow figures to fight the monster if it seems reasonable, the figures do not have to be in
contact with the base. [Primarch]
Q: Are giant eagles considered large monsters and thus +1 to be hit?
A: Yes. [Primarch]
Q: If a White Dragon breathes on a unit does it freeze the unit in place irrespective of wounds
caused, or is at least one wound necessary to freeze them?
A: Must cause 1 wound to freeze unit. [Primarch]
Q: Can you dispel the gaze of a cockatrice?
A: Yes, And the Gorgon too. [Primarch]
Q: Can the chimera fly? Can the Cockatrice Fly?
A: Yes and Yes. [Chronicles of War, p. 10]
Q: Does a bat swarm (flies 8") get to `march-fly' 16"?
A: No. [Primarch]
Q: Is the Dragon's armor save modified by the attacker's strength?
A: Yes. [Battle Beastiary, pp. 54-55]
House Rule: It is suggested that the dragon have an unmodified 5+ armor save.
Q: Is the Wyvern's armor save modified by the attacker's strength?
A: Yes. [Battle Beastiary, p. 85]
House Rule: It is suggested house rule to allow the wyvern's armor save to be unmodified.
Q: If characters riding monsters are slain during hand to hand combat whilst flying high then
how is the monster reaction table interpreted?
A: Not covered in the rules, the following is a good house rule: If the monster does anything
other than flee, then place the monster in the controlling players deployment area during the
controlling players next turn. The controlling player determines location. Follow the monster
reaction table as normal from there. [Primarch]
Q: Does the breath weapon of a white dragon requires a 'to hit' roll, i.e. 4+ on D6?
A: yes. [Primarch]
Q: As quoted from the beastiary p. 55, A frozen unit may fight normally if attacked, but may not
do anything else until it thaws out. It takes a unit an entire turn to thaw out. What does an entire
turn means?
A: It will miss the rest of the opponents turn (hand to hand combat, magic), as well as the entire
controlling players turn (movement, missile fire, hand to hand combat, magic). [Primarch]

Q: If a unit is frozen, can a wizard cast spells? use dispels?
A: Cannot cast spells, cannot dispel spells. [Primarch]

38.0 Victory Points
Q: If a regimental chariot is destroyed (either the creatures are killed) and the crew live does the
opponent get victory points for the chariot? What about hero chariots where the hero lives and
the chariot is destroyed?
A: The opponent only gets victory points once the chariot and rider are destroyed, whether the
rider is a hero or not. [Primarch]
Q: Are any victory points awarded for destroying Skaven units created with Curse of the Horned
Rat? What about Plaguebearers created with plague wind, etc.?
A: No. [Primarch]
Q: If a chaos character is removed due to Cosmic Duel, who could come back but does not
during the game, does he count toward opponent victory points?
A: No. [Primarch]
Q: Does a wizard who used Escape, and does not come back, count towards victory points?
A: No. [Primarch]
Q: A regimental chariot unit consists of 5 chariots. Does the opponent get any victory points for
destroying 1 chariot of the unit?
A: Yes. [Primarch]
Q: How are victory points awarded for squig hoppers?
A: Every 3 squig hopper killed is worth 1 victory point. [Primarch]
Q: A monster mounted character (not a champion) is in a unit, and the entire unit is destroyed,
how are victory points computed?
A: Compute the total point value of the character, his equipment and his mount. Victory points
are awarded for this. Then compute the total point value of the rest of the unit, victory points are
then awarded for that as well. If the character or monster mount die separately, victory points
are awarded for each, but if they die together, combine the point total before computing victory
points. [Primarch]
Q: A character is mounted on a monster. If only the monster dies, do I get Victory points for it?
What if only the character dies?
A: Yes and Yes. [Primarch]
Q: If a night goblin unit releases fanatics, do all the fanatics plus the unit have to die to give the
opponent any victory points?
A: Yes [Primarch]
Q: If a character starts in a unit in the game, and leaves it, does that unit and character have to
be killed to give the enemy any victory points?
A: No, treat them as separate units for victory points. [Primarch]
Q: Are units that are incapacitated when the game ends (mork wants ya, gem of gnar, crimson
bands, crystal charioteer) counted towards enemy victory points?
A: No [Primarch]
Q: When a unit that has rank and file troopers and characters in it dies, are the Victory Points for
the characters and the rank and file members of the unit computed separately or together?
A: Characters other than champions are worked out separately from the unit. [Primarch]

Do you have any suggestions?
Is there something you'd like to see?
If so, please send me email and let me know!

